The work (as defined below) is provided under the terms of this Creative Commons
Public License ("CCPL" or "License"). The work is protected by copyright and/or
other applicable law. 1. Definitions. Attribution, ShareAlike. 2. Fair Use
Rights. 3. License Grant. to create and reproduce Derivative Works; to
distribute copies or phonorecords of, display publicly, perform publicly, and
perform publicly by means of a digital audio transmission the Work including as
incorporated in Collective Works; The above rights include the right to make
such modifications as are technically necessary to exercise the rights in other
media and formats. 4. Restrictions. You may not offer or impose any terms on the
Work that alter or restrict the terms of this License or the recipients'
exercise of the rights granted. You may not sublicense the Work. You may not
distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, or publicly digitally perform
the Work with any technological measures that control access or use of the Work
in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this License Agreement. The above
applies to the Work as incorporated in a Collective Work, but this does not
require the Collective Work apart from the Work itself to be made subject to the
terms of this License. If You create a Collective Work, upon notice from any
Licensor You must, to the extent practicable, remove from the Collective Work
any reference to such Licensor or the Original Author, as requested. You may
distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, or publicly digitally perform a
Derivative Work only under the terms of this License, a later version of this
License with the same License Elements as this License, or a Creative Commons
iCommons license that contains the same license Elements as this license (e.g.
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.0 Japan). You may not offer or impose any terms on the
Derivative Works that alter or restrict the terms of this License or the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted hereunder, and You must keep intact
all notices that refer to this License and to the disclaimer of warranties. You
may not distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, or publicly digitally
perform the Derivative Work with any technological measures that control access
or use of the Work in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this License
Agreement. The above applies to the Derivative Work as incorporated in a
Collective Work, but this does not require the Collective Work apart from the
Derivative Work itself to be made subject to the terms of this License. the
title of the Work if supplied; to the extent reasonably practicable, the Uniform
Resource Identifier, if any, that Licensor specifies to be associated with the
Work, unless such URI does not refer to the copyright notice or licensing
information for the Work; 5. Representations, Warranties and Disclaimer. 6.
Limitation on Liability. This License and the rights granted hereunder will
terminate automatically upon any breach by You of the terms of this License.
Sections 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, and 8 will survive any termination of this License.
Subject to the above terms and conditions, the license granted here is perpetual
(for the duration of the applicable copyright in the Work). Notwithstanding the
above, Licensor reserves the right to release the Work under different license
terms or to stop distributing the Work at any time; 8. Miscellaneous. Each time
You distribute or publicly digitally perform a Derivative Work, Licensor offers
to the recipient a license to the original Work on the same terms and conditions
as the license granted to You under this License. There are no understandings,
agreements or representations with respect to the Work not specified here.
Creative Commons will not be liable to You or any party on any legal theory for
any damages whatsoever, including without limitation any general, special,
incidental or consequential damages arising in connection to this license.
Except for the limited purpose of indicating to the public that the Work is
licensed under the CCPL, neither party will use the trademark "Creative Commons"
or any related trademark or logo of Creative Commons without the prior written
consent of Creative Commons. Please rise, then, for this minute's silence. (The
House rose and observed a minute's silence). One of the people assassinated very
recently in Sri Lanka was Mr Kumar Ponnambalam, who had visited the European
Parliament just a few months ago. Would it be appropriate for you, Madam
President, to write a letter to the Sri Lankan President expressing Parliament's
regret at his and the other violent deaths in Sri Lanka and urging her to do
everything she possibly can to seek a peaceful reconciliation to a very
difficult situation? Yes, Mr Evans, I feel an initiative of the type you have
just suggested would be entirely appropriate. Madam President, on a point of
order. I would like your advice about Rule 143 concerning inadmissibility. The
Cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes comes before Parliament on
Thursday and contains a proposal in paragraph 6 that a form of quota penalties
should be introduced for countries which fail to meet their fleet reduction
targets annually. Thank you, Mr Segni, I shall do so gladly. All of us here are
pleased that the courts have acquitted him and made it clear that in Russia,
too, access to environmental information is a constitutional right. We know, and
we have stated as much in very many resolutions indeed, including specifically
during the last plenary part-session of last year, that this is not solely a
legal case and that it is wrong for Alexander Nikitin to be accused of criminal
activity and treason because of our involvement as the beneficiaries of his
findings. I would therefore once more ask you to ensure that we get a Dutch
channel as well. Mrs Plooij-Van Gorsel, I can tell you that this matter is on
the agenda for the Quaestors' meeting on Wednesday. Why has there been no fire
drill, either in the Brussels Parliament buildings or the Strasbourg Parliament
buildings? Why are there no fire instructions? Why are no-smoking areas not
enforced? Mrs Lynne, you are quite right and I shall check whether this has
actually not been done. I shall also refer the matter to the College of
Quaestors, and I am certain that they will be keen to ensure that we comply with
the regulations we ourselves vote on. Madam President, Mrs Díez González and I
had tabled questions on certain opinions of the Vice-President, Mrs De Palacio,
which appeared in a Spanish newspaper. I would ask that they reconsider, since
this is not the case. Mr Berenguer Fuster, we shall check all this. I admit
that, at present, the matter seems to be somewhat confused. Today's decision not
to renew the embargo is extremely dangerous considering the situation there. So
Parliament should send a message, since that is the wish of the vast majority.
It is irresponsible of EU Member States to refuse to renew the embargo. Madam
President, the presentation of the Prodi Commission's political programme for
the whole legislature was initially a proposal by the Group of the Party of
European Socialists which was unanimously approved by the Conference of
Presidents in September and which was also explicitly accepted by President
Prodi, who reiterated his commitment in his inaugural speech. The events of last
week - which originated outside the Conference of Presidents, that Conference
being used simply to corroborate and ratify decisions taken elsewhere - present
us with a dilemma. According to its President, it is in a position to do so. My
Group believes that since a Parliament is meant to listen, debate and reflect,
there can be no justification whatsoever for this delay and we believe that, if
the Commission is ready to do so, we still have time to re-establish the
original agreement between Parliament and the Commission and proceed in a manner
which fulfils our duty to our fellow citizens. on the pretext that there is no
text, on the one hand, the President of the Commission would be denied his right
to speak in this Parliament and, on the other hand, there would be a debate on a
reform when Parliament had no prior knowledge of the texts on which it is based.
(Applause from the PSE Group). (Parliament rejected the request, with 164 votes
for, 166 votes against and 7 abstentions). My vote was "in favour". There is no
room for amendments. I would appreciate it if, on the close of this item of
business, I might be allowed to give an explanation of vote on behalf of my
Group. This is an important matter. Madam President, I do not wish to reopen the
debate, but I had also asked for the floor, to comment on Mr Barón Crespo's
motion. You did not call me either. When we adopt the Minutes for today's
sitting tomorrow, then any Members who think the positions have not been
explained clearly enough may ask for amendments. Mr Cox, Mr Hänsch, would this
be acceptable to you? If your ruling is that I cannot give an explanation of
vote, I accept that but accept with reservations. If they do not properly
reflect the positions adopted, then we may correct them, if necessary. (The
order of business was adopted thus amended). Madam President, we cannot and must
not accept the fact that we hear ever more frequently of accidents causing major
damage on our roads, but also on our railways and waterways, not solely but at
least partly because those involved do not take the transport of dangerous goods
seriously enough or because - as a result of ignorance or a lack of training on
the part of the drivers or others responsible for the various vehicles - a minor
accident has all too often become a major disaster. In fact, all hell broke
loose in some municipalities in my province. We also need to follow this up and
make sure that our rules are transposed by the Member States in good time and -
even more importantly - we need to ensure that they are also applied afterwards.
I should like to address one final point. We must not content ourselves with
sealing another hole in the safety net and shutting our eyes to the fact that,
where transport safety in Europe is concerned, there is still much more to be
done. Transport safety has sadly been in the news recently: My Group will
therefore support the common position and looks forward to the enactment of the
legislation which will provide us with yet another tool in our fight to make
transport in the European Union as safe as possible. When it comes to safety my
Group will always support any initiatives to improve transport safety. Madam
President, I would like to make a few comments. I would like, first of all, to
thank the rapporteur for his exceptionally accurate and technical work on the
report and, secondly, the Commission for the proposal it has submitted. Or ships
from Eastern Europe which moor adjacent to ships over here, with all the obvious
risks that this entails. Furthermore, it has transpired that research in the
ports in Belgium, Finland, but also in Japan has shown that 50% of containers
with partially dangerous cargo are not delivered correctly for shipment. If we
look at the situation where safety advisers are concerned, in a number of
countries it is compulsory to employ such safety advisers in companies as from 1
January of this year. There will be major problems with enforcing this rule at
present, especially with smaller companies, as these cannot afford safety
advisors. These smaller companies either dispose of their cargo or mix it with
other cargo, which causes problems. It is therefore also being requested that
ISO 9002 certificates possibly include the finer details of these activities in
the form of annual reports and company analyses. This gives them a competitive
edge for the interim period. Madam President, the importance of transport safety
is highlighted on a regular basis in this Parliament and rightly so. The ever
increasing volume of goods passing through Europe entails all kinds of risks,
known and unknown, for employees and the social environment. Those having to
deal with these risks should therefore meet stringent requirements. The relevant
standards which have been laid down in another Directive, 95/35/EC, seem
sufficiently adequate to advise people in a responsible manner on the
organisation of the transport of dangerous goods. Mr President, Commissioner, I
should first like to congratulate Mr Koch on his reports which, though
technical, are nonetheless of very great significance for safety. Considering
that it is only today that we are dealing with a Commission proposal first made
on 19 March 1998, even though Parliament responded relatively quickly, this time
lag is a little too long. This is not just the fault of the Commission, but I
believe that we need to take action more quickly so as to achieve harmonisation
in this area as well. However, when it comes to safety, I am rather sceptical
because safety in Sweden, for example, is in principle no different from safety
in Germany, Italy or Austria. Should flexibility of this kind result in there
being inadequate rules in some countries then we should work towards greater
harmonisation. As you know, like Mr Rack, I come from a transit country, where
this issue plays a particularly important role. in the end there is only one
amendment on the requirements for the aptitude examination for safety advisers
in the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterway. We
understand that it is important that the two institutions - Parliament and
Commission - cooperate and work together and that the current cooperation with
the Committee on Regional Policy, and in particular the transport group, is
magnificent. The common position includes practically all of the amendments
accepted by the Commission and harmonises the minimum examination requirements
for safety advisers and, at second reading, we can accept the amendment on the
proposed date, which is much more realistic than the one originally suggested by
the Commission, bearing in mind that we have now spent several years debating
this question. Finally, I would like to say that we have to consider safety in
all types of transport. But I would like to say that safety is a priority
objective for the Commission. As I will say in the debate on the Erika disaster,
we do not wait until there is a disaster to deal with the question of safety,
but we work on it even when there are no such circumstances, which simply serve
to demonstrate the urgency for an effective response to this type of problem. I
would like to repeat my appreciation to all the speakers and especially to the
rapporteur, Mr Koch. The debate is closed. In this respect, I accept this
proposal to amend Directive 94/55/EC which has been tabled for discussion today.
The amendment to the Directive on today's agenda does not therefore affect the
existing harmonisation of the transport of dangerous goods in the community. I
do realise that this is only a small step towards increased transport safety,
but I would ask you to endorse this report. I would like to briefly comment on
the Commission's proposal to amend the Directive on the transport of dangerous
goods by road. According to the Commission's proposal -20º C would have been
sufficient. Mr President, with your permission I should like to begin by
expressing my admiration for the way in which you executed the quick changeover
of the chairmanship just now during the debate. On the subject at hand, I think
that the people of Europe must be able to be confident that the goods - however
dangerous they are - which are transported on Europe's roads, railways, and so
on are as safe as possible. This is also important where the prerequisites for
the internal market are concerned. If we are to get a common transport market
genuinely up and running, it is important that we should not only have
regulations but that these regulations should also, as far as possible, apply to
every country. I hope that the Commission is able to accept the present
amendment. Mr President, I would like to thank not only Mr Koch, but also the
Vice-President of the Commission for the clear and unambiguous way in which they
have declared their support for safety in the transport sector and acknowledged
it as a priority. The reason Mr Koch produced his sound report was because the
work in the CEN and within the United Nations Economic Commission was proceeding
none too expeditiously. Mr President, I would once again like to congratulate Mr
Koch on his magnificent work on this other report, which in a way supplements
the debate which we held in October on rail transport. This debate and the
amendment of the Directive currently in force allow us to incorporate
differentiating elements which demonstrate the diversity of this Europe of ours.
The Commission accepts all of the contributions of the parliamentary committee
and the rapporteur, Mr Koch, which are contained in the various amendments,
specifically four. Structural Funds-Cohesion Fund coordination. A major part of
Wales, as you know, has been granted Objective 1 status under the Structural
Funds programme. We are dissatisfied with the fact that those figures seem to
have been in some way hidden within UK figures. We look to the Commission also
to ensure that there is matched funding for projects. Finally, we ask that the
Commission ensures that Structural Fund monies are spent in a way which is
transparent. Too much of what takes place within this Parliament is not
transparent. Mr President, our committee views these issues very differently
and, to start, I will speak from the point of view of research. We see it as a
very positive sign that, in her own conclusions, the rapporteur has taken
account of our committee's proposal that the Cohesion Fund countries should
broaden the research infrastructure by locating universities and colleges in
such a way that they would serve those who live in undeveloped regions better
than now and make it easier for educated people to remain in their home
districts. Poverty and wealth used to depend more on means of livelihood. In my
opinion the committee drafting the report has not taken sufficient account of
this, so on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and
Energy, I would draw the Commission's attention to this issue. I would like to
draw people's attention to Amendments Nos 1 and 2 which were agreed by the
Committee on Employment and Social Affairs but not accepted by the Committee on
Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. These amendments deal with the social
economy and the need to provide social risk capital and support financially
local schemes to develop employment opportunities and strengthen social
cohesion. In her report, Mrs Flautre also drew attention to an area where
coordination is sorely lacking, yet desperately needed. The Commission proposals
refer to the four pillars of employment strategy and the five fields of action
of the European Social Fund. But the lack of specific guidelines here is
particularly to be regretted, as the idea of linking Social Fund assistance to
the employment strategy will be put into effect for the first time during the
2000-2006 programme. I would like to point out, however, that this starting
point indicates to us the challenges which face us: This, as well as the
deficiencies in the networks of infrastructures and services and a generally
very low level of employment, which furthermore is seasonal and lacks diversity,
exacerbates the exodus from rural areas. However, even though the role of
agriculture is not exclusive, it is still essential, not only to prevent
economic and social disintegration and the creation of ghost towns, but also
because farmers play a fundamental role in managing the land, in preserving
biodiversity and in protecting the environment. In conclusion, I would ask the
Commission to take these five points into account when establishing the
conclusions on the four pillars because I believe that, for the European Union,
maintaining the population in rural areas must be one of the priority
objectives. The truth of the matter though is that we believe - and this is also
shown in the way the conclusions have been drafted - that the Commission must
take account of what is adopted by this Parliament, particularly in the face of
an interim revision of these Directives. In our amendments, we have stated the
importance of the necessary synergies being produced between the Structural
Funds, the Cohesion Fund and Community initiatives, so that their application
should be reflected, in the best and most profitable way, by the gradual
elimination of disparities between regions and by the creation of jobs which
are, when all is said and done, the two central purposes of the funds we are
discussing. If they do not, if businesspeople feel marginalised, if
entrepreneurs cannot take part, not only in managing but also in receiving these
funds, we will have missed an opportunity to attain our objectives more rapidly.
All of this must be done - I repeat - with the participation of private
business, which, by uniting its efforts with those of public administrations,
but complementing them, never obstructing or excluding them, will lead to the
creation of wealth in society and of jobs. Mr President, it is incumbent upon me
to remind my colleague, Mr Evans, of why Wales actually achieved Objective 1
status. Let me also remind him that when his party leader, Mr Hague, was
Secretary of State for Wales, he broke every rule in the book on additionality
which led to a stern letter from Commissioner Wulf-Mathies regarding regulatory
requirements. I can tell you that the British Government is aware of its
regulatory requirements on Objective 1 additionality. I want to focus our minds
on the essential role of the guidelines. They should not be about creating
additional layers of bureaucracy and red tape. The implementation and operation
of the guidelines cannot be left to the personal interpretation of one or other
desk officer, either in the Commission or in thecivil service. There must be an
internal coherence in the Commission directorate, while respecting the specific
local and regional aspects of Commission programmes. The conclusion is that we
must make the case for guidelines to be broad, indicative and flexible to assist
our programme managers and fund-users and to get the maximum potential out of
our new fields of regeneration. The rapporteur has also quite rightly stated
that Parliament was not heard in time regarding the guidelines. We oppose the
excessive control the central administration of the Union and its Member States
exercises and we are calling for a reduction in the bureaucracy that has taken
root in the drafting and implementation of programmes. Projects have to be
carried out more efficiently, more flexibly and they have to be made more
productive. Mr President, Commissioner, as proof that this Parliament has not
yet overcome its role as a consultative and subordinate institution, the
excellent report by a fellow member of my Group, Elisabeth Schroedter, has not
been able to reach plenary sitting because the plans for regional development
for the period 2000-2006 for Objective 1 regions have been sitting in the
Commission's offices for several months. Bearing this in mind, this House
should, in any event, demand that, before the Community support frameworks for
the period in question are approved, they be studied and submitted for debate in
this Parliament, specifically in light of the guidelines that we have presented
today. We are obliged to participate in drafting Directives and also in
assessing their results. We might be mistaken in using the gross domestic
product per inhabitant as the sole indicator. We will have to study several
indicators, which will enable us to see the current state of regional societies
that are in a worse situation than others, and how they are evolving. I do not
think, however, that this report has come too late. This is what we are today
asking the Commissioner for. Mr President, I support the main proposals of the
report concerning the administration of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion
Fund for the period 2000-2006 and the main recommendations of the report which
include the following: The Structural Funds have played a key role in the
development both of urban and rural parts of peripheral countries, mainly
through the upgrading of roads, water treatment and related transport networks.
Key EU programmes between 1989, 1993, 1994 and 1999 have certainly helped to
improve the economic competitiveness of peripheral countries and Objective 1
regions within Europe. In conclusion, while key infrastructure projects have
been supported by the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund,
we should remember that the European Social Fund has played a very important
role in helping the less well-off in our society. I am raising the issue just to
reiterate Parliament's position. They are particularly beneficial to the Member
States, and I would particularly like to draw your attention to the emphasis the
Commission has placed on the issues of sustainable development, job creation
and, more particularly, on equal opportunities and transport issues.
Commissioner, we shall continue to raise the issue, as Article 158, paragraph 1,
of the Treaty of Amsterdam provides for an integrated policy for islands. I am
absolutely certain that this code will be observed and that Parliament will keep
abreast of all the developments and details concerning the implementation of the
programmes. I know many have already done so, but she has indeed earned our
praise for being particularly open and attentive to proposals from all sides,
and I think it is this openness which has given her report the quality we see
today. I share the regrets she expressed, namely that Parliament has become
involved rather late in the day as regards these guidelines, since by now the
procedure for negotiations with the states is so far advanced that I cannot see
this report having any sort of immediate effect, which in my view is a pity. The
second challenge is that of enlargement which will, of course, have a
considerable impact, both in budgetary and geographical terms. Finally, in this
time of natural disasters, I would just like to mention the issue of the use of
Structural Funds. Europe should not be completely absent, as the states tend to
want. I think we should be capable of saying this loud and clear. Its
implementation would certainly require extending the scope of redistribution
instruments such as the Structural Funds. Over the coming years, faced with the
challenges of globalisation and eastward enlargement, Europe will, more than
ever before, require appropriate detailed guidance on how to plan and revitalise
its economy. To this end, Europe as a whole, and each Member State individually,
will have to make optimum use of all available resources and capacities,
including the Structural Funds. For this to be possible, what we need from the
European Commission are not just good intentions, but clearer guidelines and a
firm commitment to monitoring the way these resources are used by the Member
States. For example, in recent years Italy has had problems in utilising the
Structural Funds, mainly because of excessive bureaucracy, insufficient
information and a lack of involvement of economic and social operators at local
level. Does it cost money to use Facebook? Is it true that Facebook is going to
charge to use the site? Facebook is a free site and will never require that you
pay to continue using the site. You do, however, have the option of purchasing
Facebook credits, which can be used to send gifts or to purchase items on
applications or games. In addition, if you choose to use Facebook from your
mobile device, please note that you will be responsible for any fees associated
with internet usage and/or text messaging as determined by your mobile service
provider. What is the minimum age required to sign up for Facebook? Can I create
a joint Facebook account or share a Facebook account with someone else? After
you create an account, you can use Friendship Pages to see your interactions
with any friend, all in one place. Why am I getting a Facebook invitation email
from a friend? Facebook allows members to send invites to their contacts by
entering an email address or by uploading their contacts. Create an account. If
you don't have a Facebook account, you can sign up for one in a few easy steps.
Just enter your email address and password into the section at the top of the
page and click "Log In". How can I make my password strong? Ideally, the
password you select should be easy for you to remember but hard for someone else
to figure out. For added security, your Facebook password should also be
different than other passwords that you use on the internet. Having a security
question is a useful way to verify you own your account if you ever lose access
to it. You can add a security question to your account from your Security
Settings page: From the left column menu, click Security. Click on the Security
Question section and follow the onsite steps. Create an Advert or contact our
sales team. Connect with more than 800 million potential customers. Test simple
image and text-based adverts and use what works. Deepen your relationships.
Promote your Facebook Page or website. Set the daily budget you are comfortable
with. Adjust your daily budget at any time. Choose to pay only when people click
(CPC) or see people your advert (CPM). Real-time suggested bids for our
auction-based system provided guidance that enabled G5 to hone advert
effectiveness based on their various targeting filters (age, college level and
location). The results from Storquest's Facebook advert campaign were one of
their highest performing online advertising efforts: Over 50% increase in total
rentals versus prior year at the same store. Combining marketing solutions on
Facebook for a positive ROI. ANA took this approach by creating a Facebook page
to acquire interested users for ongoing messaging opportunities and developing a
compelling advertising campaign. ANA used a creative grouping of keywords to
target advertising to users specifically interested in traveling and Japanese
culture and developed advert creative that resonated with their audience.
Conversions resulted in positive ROI which is unique for ANA considering their
product is not an impulse purchase for most people and Japan is not
traditionally seen as a leisure destination. You've always been subscribed to
friends. Find people to subscribe to. You've always been subscribed to your
friends. Only people who allow subscribers will have a "Subscribe" button on
their profile. How do people subscribe to my updates? After you allow
subscribers, a "Subscribe" button will show up on your Profile. Subscribers can
see only the things you share publicly. Learn about the differences between
allowing subscribers and using a Page. Directive 2005/32/EC of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2005 establishing a framework for the
setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-using products and amending Council
Directive 92/42/EEC and Directives 96/57/EC and 2000/55/EC of the European
Parliament and of the Council. They also have a number of other important
environmental impacts. (3) The ecodesign of products is a crucial factor in the
Community strategy on Integrated Product Policy. As a preventive approach,
designed to optimise the environmental performance of products, while
maintaining their functional qualities, it provides genuine new opportunities
for manufacturers, for consumers and for society as a whole. (4) Energy
efficiency improvement - with one of the available options being more efficient
end use of electricity - is regarded as contributing substantially to the
achievement of greenhouse gas emission targets in the Community. Climate change
is one of the priorities of the Sixth Community Environment Action Programme,
laid down by Decision No 1600/2002/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council [3]. (8) This Directive seeks to achieve a high level of protection for
the environment by reducing the potential environmental impact of EUPs, which
will ultimately be beneficial to consumers and other end-users. (10) In order to
maximise the environmental benefits from improved design it may be necessary to
inform consumers about the environmental characteristics and performance of EUPs
and to advise them about how to use products in a manner which is
environmentally friendly. Given the urgent need to contribute to the achievement
of the commitments in the framework of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), and without prejudice to the
integrated approach promoted in this Directive, some priority should be given to
those measures with a high potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions at
low cost. (15) While the best-performing products or technologies available on
the market, including on international markets, should be taken as reference,
the level of ecodesign requirements should be established on the basis of
technical, economic and environmental analysis. Such consultation may highlight
the need for a phased introduction or transitional measures. The introduction of
interim targets increases the predictability of the policy, allows for
accommodating product development cycles and facilitates long term planning for
interested parties. (18) For the assessment of voluntary agreements or other
self-regulation measures presented as alternatives to implementing measures,
information on at least the following issues should be available: openness of
participation, added value, representativeness, quantified and staged
objectives, involvement of civil society, monitoring and reporting,
cost-effectiveness of administering a self-regulatory initiative,
sustainability. Such integration could be facilitated by wide availability of
and easy access to information relating to the sustainability of their products.
(21) EUPs complying with the ecodesign requirements laid down in implementing
measures to this Directive should bear the "CE" marking and associated
information, in order to enable them to be placed on the internal market and
move freely. The rigorous enforcement of implementing measures is necessary to
reduce the environmental impact of regulated EUPs and to ensure fair
competition. (22) When preparing implementing measures and its working plan the
Commission should consult Member States' representatives as well as interested
parties concerned with the product group, such as industry, including SMEs and
craft industry, trade unions, traders, retailers, importers, environmental
protection groups and consumer organisations. (25) Surveillance authorities
should exchange information on the measures envisaged within the scope of this
Directive with a view to improving surveillance of the market. The accumulation
and dissemination of the body of knowledge generated by the ecodesign efforts of
manufacturers is one of the crucial benefits of this Directive. (26) A competent
body is usually a public or private body, designated by the public authorities,
and presenting the necessary guarantees for impartiality and availability of
technical expertise for carrying out verification of the product with regard to
its compliance with the applicable implementing measures. (27) Noting the
importance of avoiding non-compliance, Member States should ensure that the
necessary means are available for effective market surveillance. (28) In respect
of training and information on ecodesign for SMEs, it may be appropriate to
consider accompanying activities. Once the reference to such a standard has been
published in the Official Journal of the European Union, compliance with it
should raise a presumption of conformity with the corresponding requirements set
out in the implementing measure adopted on the basis of this Directive, although
other means of demonstrating such conformity should be permitted. (30) One of
the main roles of harmonised standards should be to help manufacturers in
applying the implementing measures adopted under this Directive. These standards
should clearly indicate the relationship between their clauses and the
requirements dealt with. (33) This Directive is complementary to existing
Community instruments such as Council Directive 92/75/EEC of 22 September 1992
on the indication by labelling and standard product information of the
consumption of energy and other resources by household appliances, Regulation
(EC) No 1980/2000 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 July 2000
on a revised Community eco-label award scheme, Regulation (EC) No 2422/2001 of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on a Community
energy efficiency labelling programme for office equipment, Directive 2002/96/EC
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 2003 on waste
electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), Directive 2002/95/EC of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 2003 on the restriction of the use
of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment and
Council Directive 76/769/EEC of 27 July 1976 on the approximation of the laws,
regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to
restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and
preparations. (35) Directive 92/42/EEC provides for a star rating system
intended to ascertain the energy performance of boilers. Proposal for a COUNCIL
DECISION amending and extending Council Decision of 17 December 2001
establishing an exchange, assistance and training programme for the protection
of the euro against counterfeiting (the "Pericles" programme). Pericles, the
Community programme for exchange, assistance and training in the protection of
the euro against counterfeiting, was established by Council Decision of 17
December 2001 (2001/923/EC) and is designed to support and supplement the
measures undertaken by the Member States and in existing programmes to protect
the euro against counterfeiting. Article 1 of the Pericles Decision provides
that the programme shall run from 1 January 2002 to 31 December 2005. - a
report, independent from the programme manager, evaluating the relevance, the
efficiency and the effectiveness of the programme; - a communication on whether
this programme should be continued and adapted, accompanied by an appropriate
proposal. The evaluation report of the Pericles Programme was submitted on 30
November 2004. Since early Summer 2003, the number of counterfeit euro banknotes
detected in circulation has stabilised at about 50000 a month, a level below the
pre-euro levels, lower than the US dollar and extremely low compared to the nine
billion genuine euro banknotes in circulation. With a view to ensuring the clear
structure in the fight against currency counterfeiting as well as close
cooperation and efficient flow of information National Central Offices (NCO)
were established in all Member States. The Pericles programme is playing a
significant role in achieving the present results in the protection of the euro
and the fight against the crime of counterfeiting, through the exchange of
information and the development of cooperation. Based on questionnaires to
organisers and participants, as well as discussions with stake holders, he
reached the following main conclusions [6]: - With regard to the range of
information exchanges and methodologies/measures, most have been presented in
the various workshops, meetings and seminars. attendance by commercial banking
sector, specialist lawyers or chambers of commerce was not sufficient. - The
activities examined were considered relevant to and among the main objectives of
the programme. A second evaluation should take place after four years. - The
programme should continue to be available to all Member States but a priority
should be given (in the first instance) to those with low participation or who
did not organise actions in the first programme, as well as the new Member
States. There should be a prioritisation in favour of staff exchanges and
specific training, including case studies. These activities are also more cost
efficient. Based on these statistics/forecasts, the overall level of commitments
during the period 2002-2005 will reach 80% of the initial reference amount. In
the course of the first three years of the programme 38 projects were initiated;
Most of the actions carried out are conferences, seminars and workshops, as well
as specialised training courses. The analysis of Pericles by type of project is
shown in Table 3. In earlier periods the large majority of participants were law
enforcement agents, reflecting the priority to establish closer professional
ties for a more efficient fight against euro counterfeiting. In that respect,
the evaluation report (p. 10 and 11) shows that, until March 2004, 65% of
participants were mainly from law enforcement agencies. As of 2005, the new
Member States became active in organising Pericles actions. However, a number of
actions have been organised in third or candidate countries, reflecting the
specific needs to protect the euro. Such is the case with actions undertaken in
Colombia, for all South American countries and Bulgaria, also including other
South-Eastern European countries. As a result, the transnationality and
multidisciplinarity required under Article 3 of the Pericles Decision have been
respected, with the latter pursued both at the level of professional background
of the participants and in terms of the content of the actions. In line with
Article 5 of the Pericles Decision, the programme is implemented and coordinated
by the Commission and the Member States working closely together. This is in
also line with Recital (7) of the Pericles Decision. A small number of actions
geared on the protection against currency counterfeiting are carried out under
other Community programmes, such as TAIEX and Twinning. Such actions are mainly
single-country or single-subject actions (i.e. not eligible under Pericles) and
are systematically coordinated with Pericles by the competent service in the
Commission in coordination with Member States. two Pericles seminars assisted
the (then) acceding countries in their efforts to apply the acquis in the
specific area; a code of conduct was drawn with respect to press and
communication issues; The proposed period for extension is six years and the
reference amount unchanged at one million euro per year. The adaptations
proposed concern the increase of the proportion of co-financing by the Community
budget; the introduction of flexibility in the number of applications by each
Member State and consequent coordination; and the extension of the content of
the technical and operational back-up to administrative support for active
investigations, with intermediation by Europol. - continue vigilance in order to
maintain or reduce the current level of euro banknote counterfeiting and avoid
any increase in euro coin counterfeiting that would undermine the confidence of
the public; - train/inform new staff and extend the training to sectors that
have less benefited from the Pericles programme, namely financial agents,
prosecutors and technical staff; Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Adopted
and proclaimed by General Assembly resolution 217A (III) of 10 December 1948.
PREAMBLE. Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and
inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of
freedom, justice and peace in the world; Whereas disregard and contempt for
human rights have resulted in barbarous acts which have outraged the conscience
of mankind, and the advent of a world in which human beings shall enjoy freedom
of speech and belief and freedom from fear and want has been proclaimed as the
highest aspiration of the common people; Whereas it is essential to promote the
development of friendly relations between nations; Whereas Member States have
pledged themselves to achieve, in co-operation with the United Nations, the
promotion of universal respect for and observance of human rights and
fundamental freedoms; Now, therefore, The General Assembly Proclaims this
Universal Declaration of Human Rights as a common standard of achievement for
all peoples and all nations, to the end that every individual and every organ of
society, keeping this Declaration constantly in mind, shall strive by teaching
and education to promote respect for these rights and freedoms and by
progressive measures, national and international, to secure their universal and
effective recognition and observance, both among the peoples of Member States
themselves and among the peoples of territories under their jurisdiction.
Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this
Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex,
language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin,
property, birth or other status. Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on
the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the
country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent,
trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty. No one
shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or
punishment. All are entitled to equal protection against all types of
discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to
any form of discrimination. Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the
competent national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted
him by the constitution or by law. No one shall be subjected to arbitrary
arrest, detention or exile. (1) Everyone has the right to freedom of movement
and residence within the borders of each State. (1) Everyone has the right to
seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution. (2) No one shall
be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right to change his
nationality. (3) The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society
and is entitled to protection by society and the State. (1) Everyone has the
right to own property alone as well as in association with others. Everyone has
the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes
freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in
community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or
belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance. (1) Everyone has the right
to freedom of peaceful assembly and association. Everyone, as a member of
society, has the right to social security and is entitled to realization,
through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with
the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, social and
cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his
personality. (1) Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment,
to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against
unemployment. (3) Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable
remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human
dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social protection.
(1) Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and
well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and
medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the
event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of
livelihood in circumstances beyond his control. All children, whether born in or
out of wedlock, shall enjoy the same social protection. (1) Everyone has the
right to education. (2) Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral
and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic
production of which he is the author. (1) Everyone has duties to the community
in which alone the free and full development of his personality is possible. It
can be a very complicated thing, the ocean. And it can be a very complicated
thing, what human health is. And I'm going to start with this one: We've
experienced that. This is a shot of Cannery Row in 1932. They say, "You know
what you smell?". We made the ocean unhappy; The pyramid of ocean life. We see
the base of the food chain, the plankton, the small things, and we see how those
animals are food to animals in the middle of the pyramid, and on so up this
diagram. Now why does that matter for human health? We don't really have to play
it; There's no mechanism in this game for them to go anywhere but into a bigger
and bigger pile of indigestible Styrofoam peanuts. They accumulate into the top
of it. The dolphins eat the fish that have PCBs from the plankton, and those
PCBs, being fat-soluble, accumulate in these dolphins. Here's a diagram of the
PCB load of dolphins in Sarasota Bay. Those females, they're not trying to. The
death rate in these dolphins, for the first calf born of every female dolphin,
is 60 to 80 percent. There's another top predator in the ocean, it turns out.
That top predator, of course, is us. In fact, what we did a few years ago was
learn how to smuggle a molecular biology lab into Tokyo and use it to
genetically test the DNA out of whale meat samples and identify what they really
were. And some of those whale meat samples were whale meat. Some of them were
illegal whale meat, by the way. That's another story. And those dolphin parts
had a huge load of PCBs, dioxins and heavy metals. I think that vote is
occurring right now. The mycelium infuses all landscapes, it holds soils
together, it's extremely tenacious. They're the grand molecular disassemblers of
nature - the soil magicians. They generate the humus soils across the landmasses
of Earth. I'm in love with the old-growth forest, and I'm a patriotic American
because we have those. We share in common the same pathogens. Fungi don't like
to rot from bacteria, and so our best antibiotics come from fungi. My foot is
covering approximately 300 miles of mycelium. This is photomicrographs from Nick
Read and Patrick Hickey. And notice that as the mycelium grows, it conquers
territory and then it begins the net. It inhales oxygen, just like we do. But
these are essentially externalized stomachs and lungs. And I present to you a
concept that these are extended neurological membranes. And in these cavities,
these micro-cavities form, and as they fuse soils, they absorb water. These are
little wells. I first proposed, in the early 1990s, that mycelium is Earth's
natural Internet. When you walk across landscapes, it leaps up in the aftermath
of your footsteps trying to grab debris. And this is the paradigm that we see
throughout the universe. They came to land 1.3 billion years ago, and plants
followed several hundred million years later. How is that possible? Makes the
rocks crumble, and the first step in the generation of soil. This was first
discovered in 1859. It was called Prototaxites. And these existed for tens of
millions of years. Sunlight was cut off, and fungi inherited the Earth. at least
in my own mind. 2,200 acres in size, 2,000 years old. We were involved with
several experiments. The conditions and arrangements for admission are set out
in the Protocol annexed to this Treaty. This Treaty shall enter into force on 1
January 2007 provided that all the instruments of ratification have been
deposited before that date. These measures shall enter into force only subject
to and on the date of the entry into force of this Treaty. Protocol Concerning
the conditions and arrangements for admission of the republic of Bulgaria and
Romania to the European Union. The particular instruments mentioned in this
Article include those referred to in Article IV-438 of the Constitution. The
last programming exercise for the pre-accession assistance referred to in
paragraph 1 shall take place in the last year preceding accession. For audit and
evaluation costs, pre-accession funds may be committed up to five years after
accession. The Commission may adopt rules for implementation of the assistance
referred to in paragraph 2. This assistance shall fund institution-building
projects and limited small-scale investments ancillary thereto. The
appropriations shall be authorised by the budgetary authority within the limits
of the financial perspective. The measures shall be maintained no longer than
strictly necessary and, in any case, shall be lifted when the shortcomings are
remedied. A European law of the Council may extend this period. These measures
shall be taken during a period of three years following the date of accession
and their application shall be limited to that period. The term of office of one
of the Judges of the General Court appointed in accordance with paragraph 1
shall expire on 31 August 2007. A national of each new Member State shall be
appointed to the Court of Auditors as from the date of accession for a term of
office of six years. They shall communicate those measures to the Commission by
the date of accession or, where later, by the time limit provided for in this
Protocol. Where these derogations are adopted after accession they may be
applied as from the date of accession. They shall be published in the Official
Journal of the European Union if the texts in the present languages were so
published. Annexes I to IX and the Appendices thereto shall form an integral
part of this Protocol. As long as this Agreement is not yet concluded, insofar
as it applies provisionally. This communication shall include information on the
legal basis for each measure. After that date, any aid found to be incompatible
with those guidelines shall be considered as new aid. The stocks referred to in
paragraph 1 shall be deducted from the quantity exceeding the normal carryover
of stocks. Meanwhile, the European Union and China are pressing to close their
own deals in Asia and elsewhere. Over the last two years, India has invalidated
or otherwise attacked patents on 15 drugs produced by international firms in
order to make way for local champions, claiming that exclusivity enables
companies to charge high prices that harm consumers. Hosting a huge financial
center, with outsize domestic banks, can be costly to taxpayers. When civilians
launched a suicidal attack on an armed force in Kyiv on February 20, their sense
of representing "the nation" far outweighed their concern with their individual
mortality. That is why the EU was hopelessly outmaneuvered by Russia in the
negotiations with Ukraine over an Association Agreement. True to form, the EU
under German leadership offered far too little and demanded far too much from
Ukraine. Now, after the Ukrainianpeople's commitment to closer ties with Europe
fueled a successful popular insurrection, the EU, along with the International
Monetary Fund, is putting together a multibillion-dollar rescue package to save
the country from financial collapse. Ukraine, with its high-quality human
capital and diversified economy, is a potentially attractive investment
destination. it must have good relations with both sides. Instead, lower growth
rates are the natural result of the long-awaited rebalancing of the Chinese
economy. China's export-led growth miracle would not have started in the 1980's
without the American consumer. For a growth-starved US economy, the
transformation of its codependent partner could well be a fork in the road. In
the developing world, too, the vast majority of people have started to
experience sustained improvement in living standards and are rapidly developing
similar growth expectations. So far, every prediction in the modern era that
mankind's lot will worsen, from Thomas Malthus to Karl Marx, has turned out to
be spectacularly wrong. Living standards around the world continue to rise.
Leaving aside potential geopolitical disruptions, there are some formidable
challenges to overcome, mostly stemming from political underperformance and
dysfunction. The first set of issues includes slow-burn problems involving
externalities, the leading example being environmental degradation. Capitalist
economies have been spectacularly efficient at enabling growing consumption of
private goods, at least over the long run. Moreover, if an innovation, such as
ATMs in banking, leads to increased unemployment, none of the social cost –
neither the suffering of those who are laid off nor the increased fiscal cost of
paying them unemployment benefits – is reflected in firms' profitability. A lot
of intellectual effort has been devoted to devising better ways of maximizing
advertising and marketing budgets–targeting customers, especially the affluent,
who might actually buy the product. It is telling that most of the symposium's
47 participants – influential public- and private-sector figures from around the
world – were unaware of the extent to which a mother's nutrition affects her
offspring's wellbeing. In fact, upon hearing the evidence, a former Pakistani
prime minister confessed that he would have been more proactive in this area had
he known while he was in office what he knows now. After all, if an adequately
nourished mother provides critical health benefits to her offspring throughout
their lives, women can be viewed as the custodians of future generations'
health. The good news is that there are solutions. In Brazil, a television
program on the role that folic-acid supplementation could play in the prevention
of spina bifida (a congenital neural tube defect) immediately grabbed
politicians' attention. The problem is that the rate drops sharply from 71% to
57% among women in their 30's, as inflexible working environments and a lack of
affordable childcare undermine their ability to continue investing in their
careers. The good news is that Park's government is working to change this. But,
given that South Korea's workforce already includes a substantial share of
non-regular workers, increasing temporary employment may not contribute to
economic growth. Closing Africa's Agricultural Gender Gap. SEATTLE – Africa's
GDP is now growing faster than any other continent's. To help us better
understand the problem, the World Bank and the ONE Campaign recently conducted
an unprecedented analysis of the challenges facing women farmers. Their report
highlights one stark fact from the start: But we now know that the story is much
more complicated. WASHINGTON, DC – The International Monetary Fund is an
immensely useful organization, able to deliver substantial amounts of financial
and technical assistance at short notice to almost any place in the world. But
in the halls of the US Congress, few people pay any attention. In the highly
charged partisan atmosphere of Washington, DC, this is without question almost
always an advantage. The reality is that it stands for and operationalizes US
power, in cooperation with America's closest allies. (For the technical details,
I recommend a recent paper by Edwin M. Truman, my colleague at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics.) Next month, Ukraine's citizens will
freely choose a new President – the best rebuke possible to Russian propaganda
about our supposed failure to uphold democracy. But the wellbeing of Ukrainian
democracy is not what Putin has in mind; Putin's factotums claim that Ukraine's
Russian speakers are under threat, but they cannot point to a single example of
persecution that might bear this out. STANFORD – Mosquito-borne diseases kill
millions of people annually, and cause suffering for many more. As a result,
research and development in genetic engineering is more expensive, discouraging
investment and hampering innovation. Over the last two decades, every effort to
discipline the EU's fiscal delinquents has failed, owing to the lack of
enforcement authority. But the depth and persistence of the ongoing crisis have
exposed the euro's fundamental fragilities, and should serve as a warning that
today's technocratic Band-Aids may not hold in the face of another shock. Honoré
De Balzac was born into a family which had struggled nobly to achieve
respectability. She was not in love with her husband. Balzac worked these scenes
from his boyhood-as he did many aspects of his life and the lives of those
around him-into La Comédie Humaine. "He devoured books of every kind, feeding
indiscriminately on religious works, history and literature, philosophy and
physics. In 1814 the Balzac family moved to Paris, and Honoré was sent to
private tutors and schools for the next two and a half years. In 1816 Balzac
entered the Sorbonne, where he studied under three famous professors. And - most
influential of all - Victor Cousin's courses on philosophy encouraged his
students to think independently. Once his studies were completed, Balzac was
persuaded by his father to follow him into the law; "He announced his intention
to be a writer. When he finished, Balzac went to Villeparisis and read the
entire work to his family; they were unimpressed. In Saintsbury's view, "They
are curiously, interestingly, almost enthrallingly bad. In the preface to La
Comédie Humaine he wrote: He gave the businesses to a friend (who made them
successful) but carried the debts for many years. It resurfaced painfully later
when - as a renowned and busy author - he traveled to Sardinia in the hopes of
reprocessing the slag from the Roman mines in that country. "The aristocracy and
authority of talent are more substantial than the aristocracy of names and
material power", he wrote in 1830. The timing of the decision was also
significant; 1831 saw the success of La Peau De Chagrin (The Wild Ass's Skin or
The Magic skin), a fable-like tale about a despondent young man named Raphaël De
Valentin who finds an animal skin which promises great power and wealth. "The
magazine failed, but in July 1840 he founded another publication, the Revue
Parisienne. He is trapped by the Abbé Herrera (Vautrin) in a convoluted and
disastrous plan to regain social status. His preferred method was to eat a light
meal at five or six in the afternoon, then sleep until midnight. For example,
Balzac's friend Hyacinthe De Latouche had knowledge of hanging wallpaper. Balzac
was a highly conservative Royalist; Gustave Flaubert was also substantially
influenced by Balzac. "I have learned more [from Balzac] than from all the
professional historians, economists and statisticians put together. His plays
have been translated into every major living language and are performed more
often than those of any other playwright. Susanna, and twins Hamnet and Judith.
In 1623, John Heminges and Henry Condell, two friends and fellow actors of
Shakespeare, published the First Folio, a collected edition of his dramatic
works that included all but two of the plays now recognised as Shakespeare's.
William Shakespeare was the son of John Shakespeare, an alderman and a
successful glover originally from Snitterfield, and Mary Arden, the daughter of
an affluent landowning farmer. Although no attendance records for the period
survive, most biographers agree that Shakespeare was probably educated at the
King's New School in Stratford, a free school chartered in 1553, about a
quarter-mile from his home. John Shakespeare's house, believed to be
Shakespeare's birthplace, in Stratford-upon-Avon. The consistory court of the
Diocese of Worcester issued a marriage licence on 27 November 1582. Twins, son
Hamnet and daughter Judith, followed almost two years later and were baptised 2
February 1585. John Aubrey reported that Shakespeare had been a country
schoolmaster. By 1598, his name had become a selling point and began to appear
on the title pages. In 1610, John Davies of Hereford wrote that "good Will"
played "kingly" roles. and from November 1614 he was in London for several weeks
with his son-in-law, John Hall. After 1610, Shakespeare wrote fewer plays, and
none are attributed to him after 1613. The terms instructed that she pass it
down intact to "the first son of her body". Shakespeare's early classical and
Italianate comedies, containing tight double plots and precise comic sequences,
give way in the Mid-1590s to the romantic atmosphere of his greatest comedies.
The wit and wordplay of Much Ado About Nothing, the charming rural setting of As
You Like It, and the lively merrymaking of Twelfth Night complete Shakespeare's
sequence of great comedies. Many critics believe that Shakespeare's greatest
tragedies represent the peak of his art. On 29 June, however, a cannon set fire
to the thatch of the Globe and burned the theatre to the ground, an event which
pinpoints the date of a Shakespeare play with rare precision. Many of the plays
had already appeared in quarto versions — flimsy books made from sheets of paper
folded twice to make four leaves. A third narrative poem, A Lover's Complaint,
in which a young woman laments her seduction by a persuasive suitor, was printed
in the first edition of the Sonnets in 1609. No single play marks a change from
the traditional to the freer style. Shakespeare's standard poetic form was blank
verse, composed in iambic pentameter. Once Shakespeare mastered traditional
blank verse, he began to interrupt and vary its flow. For several decades,
Rymer's view held sway; The Expressionists in Germany and the Futurists in
Moscow mounted productions of his plays. Proposed alternative candidates include
Francis Bacon, Christopher Marlowe, and Edward De Vere, 17th earl of Oxford. The
strongest evidence might be a Catholic statement of faith signed by John
Shakespeare, found in 1757 in the rafters of his former house in Henley Street.
The document is now lost, however, and scholars differ as to its authenticity.
In 1591 the authorities reported that John Shakespeare had missed church "for
fear of process for debt", a common Catholic excuse. No written contemporary
description of Shakespeare's physical appearance survives, and no evidence
suggests that he ever commissioned a portrait, so the Droeshout engraving, which
Ben Jonson approved of as a good likeness, and his Stratford monument provide
the best evidence of his appearance. 
