Creative Commons Corporation is not a law firm and does not provide legal
services. Creative Commons makes no warranties regarding the information
provided, and disclaims liability for damages resulting from its use. License.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, Licensor hereby grants You
a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual (for the duration of the
applicable copyright) license to exercise the rights in the Work as stated
below: For the avoidance of doubt, where the work is a musical composition: The
license granted in Section 3 above is expressly made subject to and limited by
the following restrictions: EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN
NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU ON ANY LEGAL THEORY FOR ANY SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS
LICENSE OR THE USE OF THE WORK, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. I declare resumed the session of the European
Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 December 1999, and I would like once again to
wish you a happy new year in the hope that you enjoyed a pleasant festive
period. Madam President, on a point of order. You will be aware from the press
and television that there have been a number of bomb explosions and killings in
Sri Lanka. My question relates to something that will come up on Thursday and
which I will then raise again. I believe that the principle of relative
stability is a fundamental legal principle of the common fisheries policy and a
proposal to subvert it would be legally inadmissible. Madam President,
coinciding with this year's first part-session of the European Parliament, a
date has been set, unfortunately for next Thursday, in Texas in America, for the
execution of a young 34 year-old man who has been sentenced to death. However, I
would ask you, in accordance with the line which is now constantly followed by
the European Parliament and by the whole of the European Community, to make
representations, using the weight of your prestigious office and the institution
you represent, to the President and to the Governor of Texas, Mr Bush, who has
the power to order a stay of execution and to reprieve the condemned person.
Madam President, I should like to draw your attention to a case in which this
Parliament has consistently shown an interest. Now, however, he is to go before
the courts once more because the public prosecutor is appealing. Madam
President, I would firstly like to compliment you on the fact that you have kept
your word and that, during this first part-session of the new year, the number
of television channels in our offices has indeed increased considerably. Why has
there been no Health and Safety Committee meeting since 1998? The competent
services have not included them in the agenda on the grounds that they had been
answered in a previous part-session. In any event, this question is not
presently included among the requests for topical and urgent debate on Thursday.
I would also like to point out, Madam President, that this Parliament voted to
express its confidence in President Prodi during the previous legislature. It
did so again during this legislature, in July, and then, in September, it voted
once more to approve the whole Commission. To this end, I would like to remind
you of the resolution of 15 September, which recommended that the proposal be
presented as soon as possible. Therefore, Madam President, I would ask you to
request that the Commission express its opinion on this issue and that we then
proceed to the vote. I do not know whether this information is correct, but the
PPE-DE Group would, in any case, be grateful if this item were removed because
Parliament has addressed this issue several times already. Decisions have also
been adopted against a tax of this kind. Thank you, Mr Poettering. We shall
proceed to vote on the PPE-DE Group's request that the oral question regarding
the capital tax be withdrawn from the agenda. Even so, I think the positions are
quite clear and they shall be entered in the Minutes. Of course, the Minutes for
tomorrow's sitting will take into account any additional explanations. I think
this is a better solution than proceeding now to extremely time-consuming
explanations of votes. Madam President, if the vote records correctly how my
Group voted I shall not, and cannot, object to that. Prevention has to be our
answer to disasters of this kind and this draft Directive is an important step
towards well-trained safety advisers being available, so that the right action
is taken in good time. All the same, we must not content ourselves with enacting
European law to ensure greater safety. In this context, I should like to make a
request and ask the Commissioner responsible, who is with us here today, to
table an appropriate text as soon as possible with a view to continuing to make
it safer for traffic to transit tunnels in the future, so that we in Europe do
not have to experience any more such disasters on this scale. the Paddington
rail crash in London, the terrible rail crash in Norway, the two aviation
crashes involving EU citizens and the natural disaster involving the Erika off
Brittany - all within the last four months - remind us that transport safety can
never be taken for granted and that those charged with protecting the public
must be highly motivated and highly qualified. Needless to say, safety on roads,
railways and inland waterways is of key importance and, given the international
nature of these types of transport, training for safety advisors should also be
harmonised, therefore, as well as the requirements of the new ADR, for example,
which is under way. This is not in itself anything dreadful, but we should
prioritise particularly the safety aspects for goods transported by road, rail
and inland waterways and incorporate these, as part of the acquis communautaire,
as soon as possible and present them to the acceding states. I am very pleased
that agreement has also been reached with the Council on minimum standards
regarding examinations, although I would have preferred it if uniform, set
standards and modules had been established, so that certificates would be of
equal value internationally. Finally, the amendment tabled by the rapporteur is
perfectly logical and I can, therefore, give it my wholehearted support.
Firstly, I should like to ask the Commissioner - and I am convinced that my
request will fall on fertile ground - to ensure that more attention is paid to
the issue of safety, be it on the roads, on the waterways or at sea. I can live
with these minimum standards, but I would ask the Commission to monitor the
situation very carefully. As Mr Simpson has said very correctly, this is a
process which we can never take for granted or regard as having come to an end.
In this regard, I would also like to refer very briefly to the problems of the
tunnels, which Messrs Rack and Swoboda have referred to, which, in the case of
Austria, is doubtless a very sensitive issue, and great effort should be made to
improve their safety. In one of the worst accidents to have occurred recently,
the goods being transported were not dangerous in themselves. Margarine and a
few kilos of paint which, in principle, do not present risks, led to a genuine
disaster. The next item is the report (A5-0104/1999) by Mr Koch, on behalf of
the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a
European Parliament and Council Directive amending Directive 94/55/EC on the
approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the transport of
dangerous goods by road [COM (1999) 158-C5-0004/1999-1999/0083 (COD)]. Mr
President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Directive on the
approximation of the laws of the member states with regard to the transport of
dangerous goods by road, which entered into force on 1 January 1997, contains a
number of transitional provisions which are only valid for a limited period of
time, the term of validity being linked to the completion of specific
standardisation work by the CEN, that is the European committee for
standardisation. Delays in the CEN's work are now making it difficult to apply
this very Directive. It merely prolongs transitional rules by postponing
deadlines, deletes provisions which are no longer applicable, and lays down the
procedures for a) carrying out the ad hoc transportation of dangerous goods and
b) enacting less stringent national regulations, in particular for the transport
of very small amounts of dangerous goods within strictly defined local areas.
The procedures for the exercise of these implementing powers conferred on the
Commission were laid down afresh in the Council Decision of June 1999. Two of
the amendments tabled and adopted unanimously by the committee relate precisely
to this amended comitology procedure. We would like to ensure that there is a
reference to this as early as the recitals and that the period within which the
Council has to make a decision - which is not clearly worded - is set at a
maximum of three months. A final amendment is intended to ensure that tanks and
tankers put into service between 1 January 1997 and the entry into force of this
Directive may continue to be used provided that they have been constructed and
maintained in accordance with it. My amendments concern the frost-resistance
ratings for tankers carrying these dangerous goods. On the shores of the
Mediterranean, it is hard to imagine that in Lapland temperatures can fall
considerably lower than that. This would be necessary to keep safety standards
at the level they were in northern regions previously. What we are doing today
is essentially a nuisance. The rapporteur, Mr Koch, to whom we express our
thanks for the work which he has done on this, has already pointed out that
basically everything could have been somewhat more advanced had it not been for
the inactivity on the part of the CEN, which has been very dilatory in drawing
up and adapting the Directive. This makes it necessary to also take account of
the ways in which materials and packaging are affected by cold of this kind. I
would like to say, with regard to Mr Swoboda's comments on the activity of the
CEN, that we are urging them to speed up their work as much as possible because
it would be terrible if, despite the new deadline, we were to find ourselves
after a year and a bit with the same difficulties because their work has not
been concluded. We therefore accept the four amendments which have been
proposed. Mr President, it is particularly pleasing for me to make my first
speech in the European Parliament on what is regarded as the most important
issue within that part of the United Kingdom that I represent in this
Parliament, namely Wales. It is quite clear that many people within Wales are
looking to the European Structural Funds programme to alleviate some of the
great difficulties that we undoubtedly face. We are looking, therefore, within
the Structural Funds programme not just to see industrial restructuring but also
to see a wider improvement in the whole of the economic base within the
Principality. That is why I want to highlight some of the issues that I believe
the Commission must have at the forefront. Another matter we would like to
address, specifically from the point of view of industrial policy, is that we
would have liked the Commission to pay more attention to the effects of
services, electronic commerce and the growing use of the Internet, when they
were planning the coordination of Structural Funds and Cohesion Funds. Mr
President, I would very much like to thank Mrs Schroedter for the work she has
done on this and to explain to colleagues that I am speaking for my colleague,
Mrs Flautre, who followed this for the Committee on Employment and Social
Affairs but who is unfortunately ill. In the past, this Parliament has viewed
the social economy as an important potential provider of employment. We hope
that those considering rejection of these amendments have very powerful reasons
to offer to both Parliament and their citizens who are seeking employment. We
hope that the Commission can reassure us that this was an oversight which is now
being dealt with constructively. Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal
presented by the Commission, in accordance with its mandate, is a reasonable
starting point for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The
consequences do not inspire hope. This lack of infrastructure is also an
obstacle to the establishment of companies and the creation of jobs. It was
because of the discredited policies of his own Conservative Party. I suggest Mr
Evans goes back and reads the Regulation. It is particularly important in the
light of reports in the media that Europe is rapidly losing ground to the US in
the hi-tech growth industries of the future. Mr President, Commissioner, I would
like to thank Mrs Schroedter for an excellent report. She has gone into the
issue in some depth and in the committee debate she took account of many of the
amendments that have been tabled regarding this report. Our Group emphasises the
importance of the principle of subsidiarity, the responsibility of Member States
and the role of local players in drafting and implementing programmes. Our Group
also considers it important to take greater account of remote and peripheral
areas and wishes to increase interaction between towns and rural areas. We are
obliged to do so because we are the representatives of the citizens in a Europe
of Citizens and not just in a Europe of States and of Regions. It is clear from
some of the reports that have been presented to Parliament's plenary sitting
today that Europe's 25 most prosperous regions enjoy a level of unemployment
which is five times lower than in the 25 least prosperous regions. This process
will continue in accordance with the financial spending guidelines laid down by
the EU leaders at their Berlin Summit last year, which were supported by
Parliament at its last May plenary part-session. The Social Fund has certainly
improved our third-level institutions, financed our post-leaving certificate
programmes and put in place comprehensive schemes to help combat youth and
long-term unemployment, assist early school leavers and promote higher standards
of adult literacy. The second point I would like to make is that we would have
preferred it if the guidelines had been added to the Regulation in the form of
an annex, as we and Mrs Mccarthy, as rapporteurs for the general Regulation, had
asked. As an islander, however, I would like to express my dissatisfaction at
the lack of recognition of island development. Therefore, the Commission should
address the issue once and for all. As for us in Parliament, I would like to
remind you of the code of conduct between the Commission and Parliament which
was signed in May. Consequently, I feel we must look to the future and establish
guidelines for the mid-term review in 2003, and thus have an influence on the
second phase of programming set to follow 2003. Subsidies are not enough to
ensure development when infrastructure and public services are lacking. We must
ask ourselves a fundamental question: Public opinion and the press nowadays
accuse us of being unavailable to give a response, even though we are going to
be funding a large proportion of the national operations. I also think we should
ensure, or ask Member States to ensure, that there is some publicity given to
European aid whenever it is used to repair damage caused by natural disasters or
accidents. Well, the Structural Funds have helped to apply a brake to this
process. Our project of a Europe that aims to satisfy social needs envisages the
convergence of living conditions towards the highest common denominator. What we
are proposing specifically is a unified capital tax, which would make it
possible to boost the funds used to support the harmonisation of social
protection systems and the reduction of working hours at European level. I will
conclude, Mr President, by saying that the failure of the Commission's
communication to focus on territorial pacts and, especially, methods of
combating unemployment among women and young people, is cause for serious
concern. In order to be eligible to sign up for Facebook, people must be 13
years of age or older. Facebook accounts are for individual use. Since each
account belongs to one person, we require everyone to use their real name on
their account. This way, you always know who you're connecting with. If you
already have a Facebook account, you can log in to your account from the same
page. You won't see this section if you've already added a security question to
your account. Keep your security question a secret. Make sure your answer is
specific enough that it can't be guessed easily. Reach over 800 million people
where they connect and share. Select your audience by location, age and
interests. People treat Facebook as an authentic part of their lives, so you can
be sure you are connecting with real people with real interest in your products.
Of the Facebook users who were directed to CM Photographics’ website from the
adverts, 60% became qualified leads and actively expressed interest in more
information. G5 found success setting up a series of Facebook Advert campaigns
targeted to college students at 21 campuses prior to summer break for Storquest
self service storage facilities. When you have a broader presence on Facebook
with Facebook pages or Facebook events plus adverts for instance, you can turn
your advertising message into a trusted referral by including content from a
user’s friends who are already affiliated with your products. Average campaigns
for ANA result in CTR of 8–12%. Facebook Adverts resulted in a 25% CTR. Now you
can hear from people you're interested in, even if you're not friends. Common
questions. Your public updates will appear in people's News Feeds once they
click this button. They can also choose how many and what types of these public
updates they get. Therefore, substantial demand side measures and targets should
be adopted. (6) A coherent framework for the application of Community Ecodesign
requirements for EUPs should be established with the aim of ensuring the free
movement of those products which comply and of improving their overall
environmental impact. Such Community requirements should respect the principles
of fair competition and international trade. Sustainable development also
requires proper consideration of the health, social and economic impact of the
measures envisaged. Improving the energy efficiency of products contributes to
the security of the energy supply, which is a precondition of sound economic
activity and therefore of sustainable development. Considering at the design
stage a product's environmental impact throughout its whole life cycle has a
high potential to facilitate environmental improvement in a cost-effective way.
There should be sufficient flexibility to enable this factor to be integrated in
product design whilst taking account of technical, functional and economic
considerations. (13) It may be necessary and justified to establish specific
quantified ecodesign requirements for some products or environmental aspects
thereof in order to ensure that their environmental impact is minimised.
Interested parties involved should be consulted and cooperate actively in this
analysis. (16) Priority should be given to alternative courses of action such as
self-regulation by the industry where such action is likely to deliver the
policy objectives faster or in a less costly manner than mandatory requirements.
Legislative measures may be needed where market forces fail to evolve in the
right direction or at an acceptable speed. ll The exchange of information on
environmental life cycle performance and on the achievements of design solutions
should be facilitated. Synergies between this Directive and the existing
Community instruments should contribute to increasing their respective impacts
and building coherent requirements for manufacturers to apply. (36) The
requirements laid down in Council Directive 78/170/EEC of 13 February 1978 on
the performance of heat generators for space heating and the production of hot
water in new or existing non-industrial buildings and on the insulation of heat
and domestic hot-water distribution in new non-industrial buildings have been
superseded by provisions of Directive 92/42/EEC, Council Directive 90/396/EEC of
29 June 1990 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to
appliances burning gaseous fuels and Directive 2002/91/EC of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the energy performance of
buildings. Directive 78/170/EEC should therefore be repealed. Such measures
include information exchange (seminars, workshops, meetings and conferences),
placements and exchanges of staff, as well as technical, scientific and
operational back-up. Article 13 (3) of the Pericles Decision provides that the
Commission shall send to the European Parliament and the Council, by 30 June
2005: At the same time, the number of counterfeit euro coins is continuing to
increase but also remains low by historical standards. The Commission set out
the basic ideas for the protection of the euro in a Communication it published
as early as 1998 [1]. Training and technical assistance plays an important role
in this respect, hence the need to continue the Pericles programme. - The
programme has improved awareness of the Community dimension of the euro and has
also developed a greater understanding amongst the participants of the related
laws and instruments and in particular of the relevant Community and broader
European law. The evaluator made the following main recommendations: - The
programme should continue for a further 4 years at least with the same budget (1
million euro per year) and with the same measures and target groups. - Emphasis
should be put on practical training. Thus, the first project under Pericles was
only carried out in October 2002 and the amount committed in 2002 was just under
40% of the initial budget allocation (the allocation was reviewed downwards in
the course of the year). Intentions for 2005 show that the remaining amount will
also be completely consumed. The main aggregates in the implementation of
Pericles are shown on Table 2. for 2005 another 18 actions are intended by the
Member States and the Commission. Staff exchange has, nonetheless, gained ground
and has now become a standard feature of Pericles. As of 2003, a greater
involvement of judiciary authorities is observed, while as of 2004 and 2005,
there is a more pronounced participation of the financial sector (public sector
financial intermediaries, National Central Banks, commercial banking and other
financial institutions). This development is in line with the recommendation of
the evaluator, while the organisation of more technical seminars is also being
promoted. The coordination of the Pericles and other training actions is carried
out at the Commission’s Euro counterfeiting experts group, which brings together
experts from all member states and candidate countries, with participation of
Europol, the ECB and Interpol. and one of the workshops led to a proposal, by
Member States, for a Council recommendation. In line with the above analysis and
in the light of the conclusions of the evaluator of Pericles, this Communication
is accompanied by a proposal for the adaptation and continuation of Pericles. -
train relevant staff in the features of the new generation of the euro
banknotes, to be issued at the end of this decade; Whereas a common
understanding of these rights and freedoms is of the greatest importance for the
full realization of this pledge; Everyone has the right to recognition
everywhere as a person before the law. All are equal before the law and are
entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law. Everyone is
entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and
impartial tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of
any criminal charge against him. (2) No one shall be held guilty of any penal
offence on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a penal
offence, under national or international law, at the time when it was committed.
Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the
time the penal offence was committed. No one shall be subjected to arbitrary
interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks
upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the
law against such interference or attacks. (1) Everyone has the right to a
nationality. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during marriage
and at its dissolution. (2) No one may be compelled to belong to an association.
(2) Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his country. (3)
The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; (2)
Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work.
Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages.
Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and
freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully realized. Nothing in this
Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State, group or person any
right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction
of any of the rights and freedoms set forth herein. And those simple themes
aren't really themes about the complex science of what's going on, but things
that we all pretty well know. That's the theme of my talk. And we're making the
ocean pretty unhappy in a lot of different ways. Cannery Row, at the time, had
the biggest industrial canning operation on the west coast. Rolf Bolin, who was
a professor at the Hopkin's Marine Station where I work, wrote in the 1940s that
"The fumes from the scum floating on the inlets of the bay were so bad they
turned lead-based paints black". That pollution was money to that community, and
those people dealt with the pollution and absorbed it into their skin and into
their bodies because they needed the money. It's that pyramid. Because when we
jam things in the bottom of that pyramid that shouldn't be there, some very
frightening things happen. Now, to bring that home, I thought I'd invent a
little game. It's the Styrofoam and chocolate game. Imagine that when we got on
this boat, we were all given two Styrofoam peanuts. Now suppose, instead of
Styrofoam peanuts, we take these lovely little chocolates that we get and we had
those instead. PCBs accumulate in dolphins in Sarasota Bay, in Texas, in North
Carolina. But some of them were not whale meat at all. That's a tragedy for
those populations, but it's also a tragedy for the people eating them because
they don't know that that's toxic meat. We had these data a few years ago. And I
remember there sitting at my desk thinking, "Well, I know this". "This is a
great scientific discovery", but it was so awful. We have now entered in the 6X:
the sixth major extinction on this planet. Dusty and I, we like to say, on
Sunday, this is where we go to church. Mushrooms are very fast in their growth.
After they sporulate, they do rot. But I propose to you that the sequence of
microbes that occur on rotting mushrooms are essential for the health of the
forest. We exhale carbon dioxide, so does mycelium. When you look at the
mycelium, they're highly branched. It knows that you are there. Most of you may
not know that fungi were the first organisms to come to land. Oxalic acid is two
carbon dioxide molecules joined together. This photograph's taken 1950s in Saudi
Arabia. All across most land masses. Those organisms that paired with fungi were
rewarded, because fungi do not need light. So, the prospect of fungi existing on
other planets elsewhere, I think, is a forgone conclusion; Battelle Laboratories
and I joined up in Bellingham, Washington. The provisions of that Protocol shall
form an integral part of this Treaty. Bulgaria and Romania accede to the
decisions and agreements adopted by the Representatives of the Governments of
the Member States meeting within the Council. The application of the
Constitution and acts adopted by the institutions shall, as a transitional
measure, be subject to the derogations provided for in this Protocol.
Notwithstanding this, public procurement procedures initiated after accession
shall be carried out in accordance with the relevant Union provisions. To this
end, the Commission shall be assisted by a committee. The lump-sum payments
shall be used within three years from the first payment. The measures thus
decided on shall be applicable forthwith, shall take account of the interest of
all parties concerned and shall not entail frontier controls. Such safeguard
measures shall not be invoked as a means of arbitrary discrimination or a
disguised restriction on trade between Member States. In response to progress
made by the new Member State concerned in fulfilling its commitments, the
Commission may adapt the measures as appropriate. The Council shall make such
adaptations to its Rules of Procedure as are rendered necessary by accession.
Two Judges shall be appointed to the Court of Justice and two Judges shall be
appointed to the General Court. The term of office of one of the Judges of the
Court of Justice appointed in accordance with paragraph 1 shall expire on 6
October 2009. The Court of Justice shall make such adaptations to its Rules of
Procedure as are rendered necessary by accession. The terms of office of the
members thus appointed shall expire at the same time as those of the members in
office at the time of accession. Those texts shall be authentic under the same
conditions as the texts of the Treaty referred to in the first paragraph, drawn
up in the present languages. the aid measures shall be communicated to the
Commission within four months of the date of accession. FEB 10, 2014. Death by
Finance. PRINCETON – How quickly emerging markets' fortunes have turned. Not
long ago, they were touted as the salvation of the world economy – the dynamic
engines of growth that would take over as the economies of the United States and
Europe sputtered. Economists at Citigroup, Mckinsey, Pricewaterhousecoopers, and
elsewhere were predicting an era of broad and sustained growth from Asia to
Africa. But now the emerging-market blues are back. The beating that these
countries' currencies have taken as the US Federal Reserve begins to tighten
monetary policy is just the start; everywhere one looks, it seems, there are
deep-seated problems. Argentina and Venezuela have run out of heterodox policy
tricks. Brazil and India need new growth models. Turkey and Thailand are mired
in political crises that reflect long-simmering domestic conflicts. This is not
the first time that developing countries have been hit hard by abrupt mood
swings in global financial markets. The surprise is that we are surprised.
Economists, in particular, should have learned a few fundamental lessons long
ago. Instead, emerging markets' growth over the last two decades was based on a
fortuitous (and temporary) set of external circumstances: Governments that
enjoyed the rollercoaster ride on the way up should not have been surprised by
the plunge that inevitably follows. Third, floating exchange rates are flawed
shock absorbers. In reality, few economies can bear the requisite currency
alignments without pain. Floating exchange rates may moderate the adjustment
difficulties, but they do not eliminate them. America's fiscal and monetary
policies, for example, will always be driven by domestic considerations first
(if not second and third as well). And European countries can barely look after
their own common interests, let alone the world's. For the most part, that is
not a bad thing. The Fed's huge monthly purchases of long-term assets –
so-called quantitative easing – have benefited the world as a whole by propping
up demand and economic activity in the US. Without QE, which the Fed is now
gradually tapering, world trade would have taken a much bigger hit. Similarly,
the rest of the world will benefit when Europeans are able to get their policies
right and boost their economies. In the midst of a foreign-capital bonanza,
stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods are a particularly
powerful danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed
to override. maintain strong prudential controls on capital flows, or be
prepared to invest a large share of resources in self-insurance by accumulating
large foreign reserves. The deeper problem lies with the excessive
financialization of the global economy that has occurred since the 1990's. The
policy dilemmas that have resulted – rising inequality, greater volatility,
reduced room to manage the real economy – will continue to preoccupy
policymakers in the decades ahead. It is true, but unhelpful, to say that
governments have only themselves to blame for having recklessly rushed into this
wild ride. WASHINGTON, DC – In his recent State of the Union address, US
President Barack Obama reiterated his ambition to complete the Trans-Pacific
Partnership, a proposed trade agreement among the US and 11 Pacific countries.
Some activists and government officials get the relationship between strong IP
protection and economic growth backwards, claiming that IP rights are an
obstacle to development, and thus should not be enforced until after countries
achieve high-income status. As Indian Commerce Minister Anand Sharma put it,
"inherent flexibilities must be provided to developing countries. "But the
bottom line is that the ideas protected by IP rights are the dynamo of growth
for developed and developing countries alike. Instead of diluting IP rights,
developing countries like India should recognize that strengthening IP
protection is a prerequisite for attracting the foreign investment that they
need to help their economies grow, create jobs, and improve their
citizens'capacity to consume. Today, IP accounts for much of the value at large
companies. One study found that in 2009, across a variety of industries in the
US, intellectual capital – patents, copyrights, databases, brands, and
organizational knowledge – held a 44% share of firms' overall market value.
Developing countries have a lot to gain from attracting multinational firms.
They also spawn new local companies that serve as suppliers, thereby boosting
employment, augmenting workers' skills, improving productivity, and increasing
government revenue. According to a new study by the economists Robert Shapiro
and Aparna Mathur, if India achieved Chinese levels of IP protection, its annual
FDI inflows would increase by 33% annually. In the pharmaceutical sector – which
is particularly vulnerable to IP infringement – a stronger IP regime could
increase FDI inflows from $1.5 billion this year to $8.3 billion in 2020, with
pharmaceutical R&D doubling to $1.3 billion over the same period. The increased
FDI would create 18,000 new jobs in the pharmaceutical industry. If India could
transform its IP regime to resemble the US system, which is more robust than
China's, the benefits would be even greater. Inward FDI could increase by as
much as 83% annually by 2020; in the pharmaceutical industry alone, FDI could
reach as much as $77 billion, with R&D rising to $4.2 billion and 44,000 new
jobs being created. The Indian government's ongoing assault on pharmaceutical IP
makes these findings even more significant. But drug patents and prices are not
the main – or even a major – obstacle to patients' access to medical care in
India. Even the public clinics and hospitals that do exist are often rendered
useless by high rates of absenteeism by doctors. Furthermore, Indians lack
access to insurance programs, particularly for outpatient care. It is equally
important for trade negotiators worldwide to reject the notion that IP
protection is a luxury that only rich countries can afford. The reality is that
IP protection is an economic engine that developing-country citizens should not
have to forego. The Banks that Ate the Economy. His forecast represented a
simple extrapolation of two trends: These may be reasonable assumptions, but the
estimate was deeply unsettling to many. In Iceland and Ireland, banks outgrew
their governments' ability to support them when needed. The result was
disastrous. Quite apart from the potential bailout costs, some argue that
financial hypertrophy harms the real economy by syphoning off talent and
resources that could better be deployed elsewhere. "Being at the heart of the
global financial system," he said, "broadens the investment opportunities for
the institutions that look after British savings, and reinforces the ability of
UK manufacturing and creative industries to compete globally. "That is certainly
the assumption on which the London market has been built and the line that
successive governments have peddled. But it is coming under fire. Andy Haldane,
one of the lieutenants Carney inherited at the BoE, has questioned the financial
sector's economic contribution, pointing to "its ability to both invigorate and
incapacitate large parts of the non-financial economy. "He argues (in a speech
revealingly entitled "The Contribution of the Financial Sector: Miracle or
Mirage?") that the financial sector's reported contribution to GDP has been
significantly overrated. Two recent papers raise further doubts. In "The Growth
of Modern Finance", Robin Greenwood and David Scharfstein of Harvard Business
School show that the share of finance in US GDP almost doubled between 1980 and
2006, just before the onset of the financial crisis, from 4.9% to 8.3%. The two
main factors driving that increase were the expansion of credit and the rapid
rise in resources devoted to asset management (associated, not coincidentally,
with the exponential growth in financial-sector incomes). Greenwood and
Scharfstein argue that increased financialization was a mixed blessing. There
may have been more savings opportunities for households and more diverse funding
sources for firms, but the added value of asset-management activity was
illusory. Much of it involved costly churning of portfolios, while increased
leverage implied fragility for the financial system as a whole and imposed
severe social costs as over-exposed households subsequently went bankrupt.
Stephen G. Cecchetti and Enisse Kharroubi of the Bank for International
Settlements – the central banks' central bank – go further. They argue that
rapid financial-sector growth reduces productivity growth in other sectors.
Using a sample of 20 developed countries, they find a negative correlation
between the financial sector's share of GDP and the health of the real economy.
The reasons for this relationship are not easy to establish definitively, and
the authors' conclusions are controversial. But it is clear that financial firms
compete with others for resources, and especially for skilled labor. Physicists
or engineers with doctorates can choose to develop complex mathematical models
of market movements for investment banks or hedge funds, where they are known
colloquially as "rocket scientists. "Or they could use their talents to design,
say, real rockets. Cecchetti and Kharroubi find evidence that it is indeed
research-intensive firms that suffer most when finance is booming. These
companies find it harder to recruit skilled graduates when financial firms can
pay higher salaries. And we are not just talking about the so-called "quants.
"In the years before the 2008 financial crisis, more than a third of Harvard
MBAs, and a similar proportion of graduates of the London School of Economics,
went to work for financial firms. (Some might cynically say that keeping MBAs
and economists out of real businesses is a blessing, but I doubt that that is
really true.) The authors find another intriguing effect, too. Periods of rapid
growth in lending are often associated with construction booms, partly because
real-estate assets are relatively easy to post as collateral for loans. But the
rate of productivity growth in construction is low, and the value of many
credit-fueled projects subsequently turns out to be low or negative. So, should
Britons look forward with enthusiasm to the future sketched by Carney? Aspiring
derivatives traders certainly will be more confident of their career prospects.
And other parts of the economy that provide services to the financial sector –
Porsche dealers and strip clubs, for example – will be similarly encouraged. But
if finance continues to take a disproportionate number of the best and the
brightest, there could be little British manufacturing left by 2050, and even
fewer hi-tech firms than today. Sustaining Ukraine's Breakthrough. NEW YORK –
Following a crescendo of terrifying violence, the Ukrainian uprising has had a
surprisingly positive outcome. Contrary to all rational expectations, a group of
citizens armed with not much more than sticks and shields made of cardboard
boxes and metal garbage-can lids overwhelmed a police force firing live
ammunition. There were many casualties, but the citizens prevailed. This was one
of those historic moments that leave a lasting imprint on a society's collective
memory. How could such a thing happen? Quantum mechanics offers a fitting
metaphor. Physicists know that subatomic phenomena can manifest themselves as
both particles and waves; similarly, human beings may behave both as individual
particles and as components of a larger wave. In other words, the
unpredictability of historical events like those in Ukraine has to do with an
element of uncertainty in human identity. People's identity is made up of
individual elements and elements of larger units to which they belong, and
peoples' impact on reality depends on which elements dominate their behavior.
The result was to swing a deeply divided society from the verge of civil war to
an unprecedented sense of unity. Whether that unity endures will depend on how
Europe responds. Ukrainians have demonstrated their allegiance to a European
Union that is itself hopelessly divided, with the euro crisis pitting creditor
and debtor countries against one another. But that will not be sufficient to
sustain the national unity that Ukraine will need in the coming years. I
established the Renaissance Foundation in Ukraine in 1990 – before the country
achieved independence. The foundation did not participate in the recent
uprising, but it did serve as a defender of those targeted by official
repression. The foundation is now ready to support Ukrainians' strongly felt
desire to establish resilient democratic institutions (above all, an independent
and professional judiciary). But Ukraine will need outside assistance that only
the EU can provide: management expertise and access to markets. In the
remarkable transformation of Central Europe's economies in the 1990's,
management expertise and market access resulted from massive investments by
German and other EU-based companies, which integrated local producers into their
global value chains. But realizing this potential requires improving the
business climate across the economy as a whole and within individual sectors –
particularly by addressing the endemic corruption and weak rule of law that are
deterring foreign and domestic investors alike. In addition to encouraging
foreign direct investment, the EU could provide support to train local
companies' managers and help them develop their business strategies, with
service providers remunerated by equity stakes or profit-sharing. An effective
way to roll out such support to a large number of companies would be to combine
it with credit lines provided by commercial banks. To encourage participation,
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) could invest in
companies alongside foreign and local investors, as it did in Central Europe.
Ukraine would thus open its domestic market to goods manufactured or assembled
by European companies' wholly - or partly - owned subsidiaries, while the EU
would increase market access for Ukrainian companies and help them integrate
into global markets. I hope and trust that Europe under German leadership will
rise to the occasion. I have been arguing for several years that Germany should
accept the responsibilities and liabilities of its dominant position in Europe.
Today, Ukraine needs a modern-day equivalent of the Marshall Plan, by which the
United States helped to reconstruct Europe after World War II. Germany ought to
play the same role today as the US did then. I must, however, end with a word of
caution. The Marshall Plan did not include the Soviet bloc, thereby reinforcing
the Cold War division of Europe. A replay of the Cold War would cause immense
damage to both Russia and Europe, and most of all to Ukraine, which is situated
between them. Ukraine depends on Russian gas, and it needs access to European
markets for its products; Chancellor Angela Merkel must reach out to President
Vladimir Putin to ensure that Russia is a partner, not an opponent, in the
Ukrainian renaissance. FEB 27, 2014. China's Growth Puzzle. Perceptions of
resilience have given way to fears of vulnerability. The US Federal Reserve's
tapering of its unprecedented liquidity injections has been an obvious and
important trigger. Emerging economies that are overly dependent on global
capital flows – particularly India, Indonesia, Brazil, South Africa, and Turkey
– are finding it tougher to finance economic growth. In the throes of crisis,
generalization is the norm; in the end, however, it pays to differentiate.
Unlike the deficit-prone emerging economies that are now in trouble – whose
imbalances are strikingly reminiscent of those in the Asian economies that were
hit by the late-1990's financial crisis – China runs a current-account surplus.
As a result, there is no risk of portfolio outflows resulting from the Fed's
tapering of its monthly asset purchases. And, of course, China's outsize
backstop of $3.8 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves provides ample insurance
in the event of intensified financial contagion. It is neither desirable nor
feasible for China to return to the trajectory of 10% annual growth that it
achieved in the three decades after 1980. Yet a superficial fixation on China's
headline GDP growth persists, so that a 25% deceleration, to a 7-8% annual rate,
is perceived as somehow heralding the end of the modern world's greatest
development story. This knee-jerk reaction presumes that China's current
slowdown is but a prelude to more growth disappointments to come – a presumption
that reflects widespread and longstanding fears of a broad array of disaster
scenarios, ranging from social unrest and environmental catastrophes to housing
bubbles and shadow-banking blow-ups. While these concerns should not be
dismissed out of hand, none of them is the source of the current slowdown. In
other words, what we are witnessing is the effect of a major shift from
hyper-growth led by exports and investment (thanks to a vibrant manufacturing
sector) to a model that is much more reliant on the slower but steadier growth
dynamic of consumer spending and services. Indeed, in 2013, the Chinese services
sector became the economy's largest, surpassing the combined share of the
manufacturing and construction sectors. The codependency construct is rooted in
the psychopathology of human relationships whereby two partners, whether out of
need or convenience, draw unhealthy support from each other. The economic
analogue of codependency applies especially well to the US and China. And China
relied heavily on the US dollar to anchor its undervalued currency, allowing it
to boost its export competitiveness. The US, for its part, relied on cheap goods
made in China to stretch hard-pressed consumers' purchasing power. It also
became dependent on China's savings surplus to finance its own savings shortfall
(the world's largest), and took advantage of China's voracious demand for US
Treasury securities to help fund massive budget deficits and subsidize low
domestic interest rates. In the end, however, this codependency was a marriage
of convenience, not of love. And, just as a psychologist would predict, one of
the partners, China, has decided to go its own way. China's rebalancing will
enable it to absorb its surplus savings, which will be put to work building a
social safety net and boosting Chinese households' wherewithal. As a result,
China will no longer be inclined to lend its capital to the US. One path is
quite risky: The other path holds great opportunity: America can adopt a new
growth strategy – moving away from excess consumption toward a model based on
saving and investing in people, infrastructure, and capacity. In doing so, the
US could draw support from exports, especially to a rebalanced China – currently
its third-largest and fastest-growing major export market. Compared with other
emerging economies, China is cut from a different cloth. China emerged from the
late-1990's Asian financial crisis as the region's most resilient economy, and I
suspect the same will be true this time. Malthus, Marx, and Modern Growth.
CAMBRIDGE – The promise that each generation will be better off than the last is
a fundamental tenet of modern society. By and large, most advanced economies
have fulfilled this promise, with living standards rising over recent
generations, despite setbacks from wars and financial crises. Though the likely
answer is yes, the downside risks seem higher than they did a few decades ago.
Technological progress has trumped obstacles to economic growth. Periodic
political rebalancing, sometimes peaceful, sometimes not, has ensured that the
vast majority of people have benefited, albeit some far more than others. As a
result, Malthus's concerns about mass starvation have failed to materialize in
any peaceful capitalist economy. And, despite a disconcerting fall in labor's
share of income in recent decades, the long-run picture still defies Marx's
prediction that capitalism would prove immiserating for workers. But past growth
performance is no guarantee that a broadly similar trajectory can be maintained
throughout this century. When property rights are ill-defined, as in the case of
air and water, government must step in to provide appropriate Regulation. A
second set of problems concerns the need to ensure that the economic system is
perceived as fundamentally fair, which is the key to its political
sustainability. Inequality can corrupt and paralyze a country's political system
– and economic growth along with it. The third problem is that of aging
populations, an issue that would pose tough challenges even for the
best-designed political system. How will resources be allocated to care for the
elderly, especially in slow-growing economies where existing public pension
schemes and old-age health plans are patently unsustainable? Soaring public
debts surely exacerbate the problem, because future generations are being asked
both to service our debt and to pay for our retirements. We have already seen
where poor Regulation of rapidly evolving financial markets can lead. There are
parallel shortcomings in many other markets. A leading example is food supply –
an area where technology has continually produced ever-more highly processed and
genetically refined food that scientists are only beginning to assess. What is
known so far is that childhood obesity has become an epidemic in many countries,
with an alarming rise in rates of type 2 diabetes and coronary disease implying
a significant negative impact on life expectancy in future generations. Many
leading health researchers, including Kelly Brownell, David Ludwig, and Walter
Willett, have documented these problems. Self-destructive addiction to processed
foods, which economists would describe as an "internality", can lower quality of
life for those afflicted, and can eventually lead to externalities for society,
such as higher health-care costs. Again, despite a rising chorus of concern from
researchers, political markets have seemed frozen. All of these problems have
solutions, at least in the short to medium run. A global carbon tax would
mitigate climate risks while alleviating government debt burdens. Addressing
inequality requires greater redistribution through national tax systems,
together with enhanced programs for adult education, presumably making heavy use
of new technologies. The negative effects of falling population growth can be
mitigated by easing restrictions on international migration, and by encouraging
more women and retirees to enter or stay in the workforce. But how long it will
take for governments to act is a wide-open question. When it comes to public
goods – such as education, the environment, health care, and equal opportunity –
the record is not quite as impressive, and the political obstacles to
improvement have seemed to grow as capitalist economies have matured. Will each
future generation continue to enjoy a better quality of life than its immediate
predecessor? In developing countries that have not yet reached the technological
frontier, the answer is almost certainly yes. The Innovation Enigma. NEW YORK –
Around the world, there is enormous enthusiasm for the type of technological
innovation symbolized by Silicon Valley. In this view, America's ingenuity
represents its true comparative advantage, which others strive to imitate. it is
difficult to detect the benefits of this innovation in GDP statistics. What is
happening today is analogous to developments a few decades ago, early in the era
of personal computers. "There are several possible explanations for this.
Perhaps GDP does not really capture the improvements in living standards that
computer-age innovation is engendering. Or perhaps this innovation is less
significant than its enthusiasts believe. As it turns out, there is some truth
in both perspectives. Recall how a few years ago, just before the collapse of
Lehman Brothers, the financial sector prided itself on its innovativeness. Given
that financial institutions had been attracting the best and brightest from
around the world, one would have expected nothing less. But, upon closer
inspection, it became clear that most of this innovation involved devising
better ways of scamming others, manipulating markets without getting caught (at
least for a long time), and exploiting market power. In this period, when
resources flowed to this "innovative" sector, GDP growth was markedly lower than
it was before. Even in the best of times, it did not lead to an increase in
living standards (except for the bankers), and it eventually led to the crisis
from which we are only now recovering. The net social contribution of all of
this "innovation" was negative. Similarly, the dot-com bubble that preceded this
period was marked by innovation – Web sites through which one could order dog
food and soft drinks online. At least this era left a legacy of efficient search
engines and a fiber-optic infrastructure. But it is not an easy matter to assess
how the time savings implied by online shopping, or the cost savings that might
result from increased competition (owing to greater ease of price comparison
online), affects our standard of living. Two things should be clear. First, the
profitability of an innovation may not be a good measure of its net contribution
to our standard of living. In our winner-takes-alleconomy, an innovator who
develops a better Web site for online dog-food purchases and deliveries may
attract everyone around the world who uses the Internet to order dog food,
making enormous profits in the process. But without the delivery service, much
of those profits simply would have gone to others. The Web site's net
contribution to economic growth may in fact be relatively small. Likewise, our
GDP metric does not reflect the cost of the increased insecurity individuals may
feel with the increased risk of a loss of a job. In a simpler world, where
innovation simply meant lowering the cost of production of, say, an automobile,
it was easy to assess an innovation's value. But when innovation affects an
automobile's quality, the task becomes far more difficult. And this is even more
apparent in other arenas: How do we accurately assess the fact that, owing to
medical progress, heart surgery is more likely to be successful now than in the
past, leading to a significant increase in life expectancy and quality of life?
Still, one cannot avoid the uneasy feeling that, when all is said and done, the
contribution of recent technological innovations to long-term growth in living
standards may be substantially less than the enthusiasts claim. But standards of
living might have been raised even more if all of this innovative talent had
been allocated to more fundamental research – or even to more applied research
that could have led to new products. Yes, being better connected with each
other, through Facebook or Twitter, is valuable. But how can we compare these
innovations with those like the laser, the transistor, the Turing machine, and
the mapping of the human genome, each of which has led to a flood of
transformative products? Although we may not know how much recent technological
innovations are contributing to our wellbeing, at least we know that, unlike the
wave of financial innovations that marked the pre-crisis global economy, the
effect is positive. The Maternal Thread of Life. ISLAMABAD – Last month, Oxford
University's Green Templeton College held its annual Emerging Markets Symposium
at Egrove Park. The theme this year was "Maternal and Child Health and
Nutrition." The final slide of the opening presentation, delivered by GTC fellow
Stephen Kennedy, was a cartoon depicting two young contestants set to begin a
race: one was strong and healthy, while the other was emaciated, shackled,
carrying the baggage of disease, and confronting the massive barrier of
malnutrition. The message was clear: not everyone begins life with the same
chance of success. Of course, this is not a groundbreaking insight. The impact
of factors like poverty, maternal literacy, sanitation, and housing conditions
on children's health – and, in turn, on social and economic outcomes – is well
documented. The problem is that these factors are not amenable to isolated
public-health interventions. But another, less widely discussed social
determinant – maternal nutrition – could be. Since Hippocrates, people have been
discussing how "nature" and "nurture" interact to shape a person's development.
Indeed, even in ancient civilizations, adequate maternal nutrition was
considered essential to ensuring future generations' survival and prosperity.
But poverty and ignorance can thwart even the best intentions. The consequences
of maternal malnutrition are far-reaching, including higher child-mortality
rates, more birth defects, increased susceptibility to infection, and specific
nutritional deficiencies that can lock a child into a vicious cycle of poor
health early in life. Moreover, intrauterine malnutrition can increase the risk
of chronic conditions like obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease during
adulthood. They were surprised by evidence that babies grow in the same way
worldwide, as long as they receive the same care and are not constrained by
environmental factors – evidence that challenged the widely held notion that
ethnicity and gender are major determinants of a child's development. This
reflects a fundamental failing on the part of the scientific community to relay
relevant data to decision-makers. The meeting's participants agreed that strong
efforts to support pre-conception care in the context of maternal- and
child-health services were vital. These inter-generational biological
connections are particularly pronounced in the case of female children. The
influence of the levels and composition of maternal nutrition on a female fetus
will carry through to adulthood, when she, too, becomes a mother. Given how few
scientists have recognized the extent to which a woman's eggs shape her
grandchildren's prospects, it is not surprising that policymakers remain so
oblivious to the long-term impact of women's health. But the evidence is clear,
and it demands action. Conditional cash transfers, text-message-based
initiatives, school-based food programs, vitamin-fortification schemes, and
local leadership have all proved effective in improving maternal nutrition.
Compelling policymakers to implement such policies will require a new set of
skills that draws upon lessons from around the world. Initiatives aimed at
enhancing the public's knowledge of nutrition are also crucial – not least
because they can motivate citizens to pressure their governments to take action.
Forums like the Emerging Market Symposium can help to bridge the increasingly
obvious gap between science and public policy. But, without strong domestic
support for change, the impact of such meetings is limited. It is time to demand
action – and past time for policymakers to deliver it. MAR 20, 2014. South
Korea's Feminine Future. Over the last half-century, South Korea has made
considerable economic progress, with per capita income increasing from a mere
$80 dollars in 1960 to more than $22,000 last year. But its potential for
sustained growth is faltering, owing to the imminent decline of its working-age
population – projected to fall by 25% by 2050 – and rising competition from
China and other emerging economies. In order to improve its prospects, South
Korea must pursue economic reform and restructuring, with an emphasis on
maximizing its human-capital resources – especially women. South Korea's success
over the last five decades owes much to the rapid growth of its well-educated
labor force. From 1960 to 2010, the share of adults with a secondary education
soared from 20% to an impressive 87%. By boosting productivity, increasing
returns on investment, and facilitating technological adaption and innovation,
South Korea's abundance of well-educated workers has served as the foundation
for its export-oriented development strategy. But women remain underutilized, to
the detriment of the entire economy. Indeed, any effective South Korean growth
strategy must create more and better economic opportunities for women, in part
by establishing more accommodating working environments and instituting a more
diverse and flexible education system. To its credit, South Korea has built a
relatively gender-equal society. The country elected its first female President,
Park Geun-hye, in 2012. But a significant gender gap remains in terms of the
return on human capital. According to OECD data, only 55% of South Korean women
aged 15-64 are in the labor force, compared to an average of 65% in the advanced
economies. South Korea's male labor-force participation rate, by contrast,
stands at about 77% – close to the OECD average of 79%. Women who have completed
secondary or tertiary education are more likely to enter and remain in the labor
market than their less educated counterparts. The labor-participation rate for
women with post-secondary education is 64%, far exceeding the 35% rate for those
with only a primary or middle-school education. But, even for South Korea's most
highly educated and capable female workers, child rearing is a major career
obstacle. In fact, South Korean women participate in the labor force at roughly
the average rate for the OECD while they are in their late twenties. But it is
less clear how the government will create additional jobs for women. It could,
for example, split full-time jobs into multiple part-time positions, and offer
incentives for workers to reduce their hours. A better approach would entail
creating high-quality jobs in modern service industries. As it stands, while the
services sector accounts for more than 70% of employment in South Korea, its
productivity-growth rate remains much lower than that of the manufacturing
sector. It is also important to narrow the mismatch between women's abilities
and their career paths. The current system tends to reinforce gender roles,
encouraging children to follow culturally framed paths, instead of nurturing
their individual interests and potential. For example, female university
students are much more likely to study humanities than the so-called "STEM"
subjects (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) – key drivers of
productivity gains, innovation, and economic growth. Efforts by primary and
secondary schools could help to foster more diverse interests among female
students, giving talented young women the tools they need to make important
contributions to key economic sectors. Of course, the potential of educated,
empowered women to drive sustained economic growth is not limited to South
Korea. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, too, has identified increased female
labor-force participation as critical to efforts to revive his country's
long-dormant economy. In South Korea, Japan, and elsewhere, developing and
maximizing women's potential will require comprehensive education and
labor-market reforms, as well as structural change, particularly on the services
side of the economy. When many people think about the engines driving that
growth, they imagine commodities like oil, gold, and cocoa, or maybe industries
like banking and telecommunications. I think of a woman named Joyce Sandir.
Joyce is a farmer who grows bananas, vegetables, and maize on a small plot of
land in rural Tanzania. When I met her in 2012, she had just harvested her first
crop of maize grown from a seed specifically adapted for Tanzania's climate.
Research shows that increasing agricultural productivity is the most effective
way to reduce poverty in sub-Saharan Africa. In fact, agriculture offers the
continent its best opportunity to turn a vicious cycle of poverty into a
virtuous cycle of development. That is why leaders and policymakers from across
the continent have declared 2014 Africa's Year of Agriculture and Food Security.
Joyce's story is relevant for another reason, too. She is important to Africa's
future not only because she is a farmer, but also because she is a woman. The
gender gap is real, and in some cases it is extreme. When we compare male and
female farmers with similar land sizes across similar settings, the productivity
gap can be as high as 66%, as it is in Niger. Previously, experts believed that
women's farms produced less because women have less access to inputs like
fertilizer, water, and even information. With the new data in hand, we can see
that, surprisingly, the productivity gap persists even when women have equal
access to inputs. The precise reasons vary from country to country – but many of
them stem from entrenched cultural norms that prevent women from reaching their
full potential. For example, the report found that women face obstacles
mobilizing the labor they need to help their farms flourish. Women usually have
more childcare and household responsibilities than men, which make it difficult
for them to devote as much time to farm work, or even to supervise hired labor.
The problem is compounded by the fact that women are also likely to have less
income to hire laborers in the first place. In some places, that may mean
teaching agricultural extension workers how to make their messages more relevant
to female audiences, or encouraging them to visit when women are most likely to
be at home. In other places, it may mean increasing women's access to markets,
or introducing labor-saving tools to help them get the highest yield from their
land. It may also require establishing community childcare centers, so that
women farmers have the option to spend more time farming. In every case, it will
require African policymakers to start recognizing women farmers as the essential
economic partners that they are. If Africa's agricultural sector is to achieve
its promise – and if Africa's economic growth is to continue – policymakers
should take into account the needs of farmers like Joyce. It also has the great
advantage of almost always being perceived as incredibly boring. Unfortunately
for the IMF, it now needs a slightly higher public profile to convince the US
Congress to agree to some important reforms. The Ukrainian crisis may prove
helpful, though that appears less likely now – which may be a good thing to the
extent that one unintended consequence could be a loan to Ukraine that is larger
than it really needs. In the realm of international economics, being perceived
as boring confers power to the extent that it allows major decisions to be made
without a great deal of external scrutiny. From 1918 to 1939, international
economic cooperation was hard to come by – in large part because all of the
attempted deals were put together at high-profile international conferences. The
IMF rarely makes front-page headlines in the United States or other big
countries, except when there is a racy personal dimension. Since then, his
successor, Christine Lagarde, has helped to restore the Fund's reputation – and
to return coverage of its programs and activities to newspapers' dry and
unemotional business sections. (When I worked at the IMF in the 2000's,
page-three coverage of our events by leading newspapers was typically viewed as
preferable to top billing). Of course, in countries receiving assistance – such
as Greece in the last few years – the IMF excites great passion. Imagine if the
disbursement of all assistance to countries in trouble required Congressional
approval, let alone spending from the US budget. Nothing good would ever happen
– and certainly not for the US. The IMF is founded on the premise that it
represents cooperation between all of the countries of the world. Anyone who
doubts that should review a recent letter orchestrated by the Bretton Woods
Committee, addressed to Congressional leaders on behalf of an impressive array
of former Republican and Democratic cabinet secretaries. "The US does not
dictate what happens at the IMF, but it does have a disproportionate influence.
Given the Fund's origins in helping to rebuild Europe after World War II,
European countries are also very well represented on its executive board and in
terms of ownership shares (and thus voting weight on important decisions). One
major goal in recent decades has been to shift representation at the IMF
somewhat away from Europe and toward the world's emerging markets. These
countries' global economic and financial significance has grown rapidly, yet
they have relatively little representation at the Fund. A package of reforms has
been agreed. These reforms need to be agreed, in legislative form, by the US
Congress before they can take effect. For whatever reason, President Barack
Obama's administration did not push this item hard in 2013 and early 2014 – and
the agenda of encouraging further IMF reform has therefore languished. The Obama
administration proposed to tie IMF reform to the presumably imminent approval by
Congress of funding for Ukraine. This is sensible legislative tactics but not
appealing as an economic strategy. In effect, the administration tried to make
the IMF more interesting, particularly to encourage Republicans in the House of
Representatives to support the reforms. The latest indications are that the
Republicans will not be so enticed. But the bigger problem is that Ukraine does
not really need a massive loan from the IMF. What Ukraine needs is a sharp
reduction in corruption, as well as real legitimacy (through the ballot box) for
people who want to rein in the influence of oligarchs – a group that has sapped
the economy through plunder and incompetence over the past two decades. IMF
reform is sensible and should be supported. The Europeans do not need their
current level of representation, and the positions and voices of middle - and
lower - income countries should be strengthened. The Obama administration needs
to make this case more directly and forcefully to Congress. The inherent
dullness of the IMF makes that hard. MAR 31, 2014. Marx and the Mechanical Turk.
Second, he could not fully grasp that rising real material living standards for
the working class might well go hand in hand with a rising rate of exploitation
– that is, a smaller income share for labor. And, third, Marx was fixated on the
labor-theory of value. The second and third problems remain huge analytical
mistakes. But, while Marx's belief that capital and labor were substitutes, not
complements, was a mistake in his own age, and for more than a century to
follow, it may not be a mistake today. Think of it this way. · Finely
manipulating things with small muscles. · Engaging in social reciprocity and
negotiation to keep us all pulling in the same direction. · Thinking up new
things – activities that produce outcomes that are necessary, convenient, or
luxurious – for us to do. How many of us can be employed in personal services,
and how can such jobs be highly paid (in absolute terms)? Marx did not see how
the replacement of textile workers by automatic looms could possibly do anything
other than lower workers' wages. After all, the volume of production could not
possibly expand enough to reemploy everyone who lost their job as a handloom
weaver as a machine-minder or a carpet-seller, could it? It could, but Marx's
mistake was not a new one. After all, in a world of solid farmers, useful
craftsmen, dissolute aristocrats, and flunkies, demand for manufactured items
and flunkies was limited by how much of each aristocrats could use. Thus, a
decline in the number of farmers could produce no outcome other than poverty and
widespread beggary. Neither Marx nor the physiocrats could imagine the great
many well-paid things that we could find to do once we no longer needed to
employ 60% of the labor force in agriculture and another 20% in hand spinning,
handloom weaving, and land transport via horse and cart. But, given the rapid
development of technologies of governance and control, the pessimistic view
deserves attention. In this scenario, pieces of option three remain stubbornly
impervious to artificial intelligence and continue to be mind-numbingly boring,
while option four – engaging in social reciprocity and negotiation – remains
limited. APR 4, 2014. The Yalta Temptation. There is nothing phony, however,
about the efforts we Ukrainians are now making to defend our country and our
democracy. Our young men and women are volunteering for military service like
never before. Our government has negotiated a standby loan agreement with the
International Monetary Fund that will give us some of the tools that we need to
get our financial and economic house in order. That agreement will also impose
real economic pain, but Ukrainians are willing to pay the price in order to
preserve our independence. After a time of neglect, a time when we – like the
rest of Europe – believed that the continent's borders would never again be
changed by force, we are also increasing our defense spending, despite our
economy's precarious state. There will be no more surrendering of sovereign
Ukrainian territory. Not an inch. Most important, despite the Russian army
massed against us, we are embarking on an election campaign. And yet, as
Ukrainians work to rebuild our country after Viktor Yanukovych's predatory rule,
we are facing a new threat, in the form of a "peace offensive" – that old staple
of Soviet diplomacy designed to undermine Western resolve. Russian President
Vladimir Putin's recent phone call to US President Barack Obama to seek renewed
diplomatic talks, followed by a Russian white paper on how to resolve a crisis
of the Kremlin's making, is in fact a peace offensive that is offensive to
peace. Putin's gambit is akin to the infamous Yalta Conference in 1945, where
Joseph Stalin made Winston Churchill and Franklin D. Roosevelt complicit in a
division of Europe that enslaved half of the continent for almost a
half-century. Today, Putin is seeking to make the West complicit in the
dismemberment of Ukraine by negotiating a Kremlin-designed federal constitution
that would create a dozen Crimeas–bite-size chunks that Russia could devour more
easily later. Of course, federalism sounds like a good thing. Devolving
political power closer to where people actually live is always, appealing and
usually effective. for him, a federal system is a means for the Kremlin to make
political mischief and ultimately incorporate Ukraine's eastern and southern
regions into the Russian Federation. To paraphrase Clausewitz, federalism for
Putin is annexation by other means. One has only to look at the Russian
proposal's fine print: Ukraine's new federal units would have a powerful say
over "Ukraine's foreign-policy direction. "That provision would enable Putin to
try to coerce and manipulate Russian-speaking regions into vetoing the country's
European future. Ukraine's constitutional structure is for Ukraine's citizens
alone to decide. Russia can have no say in it – and nor should other countries,
however helpful they wish to be. Ukraine is not Bosnia, where the constitution
emerged out of peace talks that ended years of bloody warfare following the
breakup of Yugoslavia. Nor is it Kosovo, which became independent at the same
time that its governmental structures were being forged. Ukraine is a fully
sovereign state, recognized as such by the world, including Russia. To buy into
Putin's sham federalism is to accept the lies that the Kremlin has been spewing
about Ukraine's current interim government and the brave men and women who
ousted Yanukovych. The reason is simple: Ukraine's government under Yanukovych
was incompetent, corrupt, and mendacious. But it was an equal-opportunity
oppressor. If there is no oppression of Russian speakers in Ukraine, there is no
reason to change the country's political structure. So should Ukraine really be
forced to create a new constitutional order based on the Big Lie? What we need
is a competent, efficient, and corruption-free government. And with Europe's
help and technical assistance, we will establish one. The desire of diplomats to
find a peaceful solution to Ukraine's crisis is understandable. But the terms
that Russia is demanding, if accepted by the West, would fatally undermine
Ukraine's sovereignty; worse, accepting Russia's terms would ratify the idea
that powerful countries may bully less powerful neighbors into doing their
bidding, to the point of surrendering their independence. Ukraine will stand up
to the bully – on our own, if necessary. We refuse to play the part of hapless
victim in future history textbooks. APR 7, 2014. The Mosquito Menace. And there
are an estimated 200,000 cases of yellow fever annually, leading to 30,000
deaths worldwide. It takes only one bite from a disease-carrying mosquito to
transmit a debilitating or deadly infection – and mosquitoes breed and multiply
with astonishing speed. Given that there are no vaccines or drug treatments for
illnesses like dengue fever and West Nile virus, and that treatments for
diseases like malaria are difficult to access in many at-risk areas, more
effective mechanisms for controlling mosquito populations are desperately
needed. The good news is that a promising new technology is ready for
field-testing. It is now up to government agencies to facilitate its
development. Today, the dominant method for reducing insect populations – the
so-called "sterile insect technique" (SIT) – relies on radiation to sterilize
males, which are then released into infested areas to mate. But this approach,
which has been used since the middle of the last century, has not been effective
with mosquitoes, owing to their fragility. Advances in molecular biology offer
analogous – but far more sophisticated – solutions. Using molecular
genetic-engineering techniques, the British company Oxitec has created a new way
to control the mosquito species that transmits dengue fever. Male mosquitoes do
not bite, so their release presents no health risk, and, because their progeny
die, no genetically engineered mosquitoes persist in the environment. If the
males are released over a period of several months, this would, in theory,
result in a marked reduction in the mosquito population. All that is needed now
is to determine whether it works in practice. Scientific research to develop
products like irradiated sterile insects or the Oxitec mosquitoes proceeds
progressively from more to less contained conditions – from the laboratory to
confined trials to limited field trials. Now that Oxitec has conducted promising
field trials in the Cayman Islands, Malaysia, and Brazil, it is preparing to
conduct trials in other countries, including the United States. In order to
determine the appropriate level of oversight, government bodies would presumably
conduct a science-based risk analysis. When it comes to genetic engineering,
however, science seems to matter less than politics. The fact is that molecular
genetic engineering is more precise and predictable than older, cruder
techniques This is all the more problematic in the case of mosquito control,
given the urgency of the problem. The World Health Organization's Special
Program for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases has called upon
regulatory agencies to emphasize "science-based, case-by-case targeted
requirements with a degree of practical parsimony," instead of relying on "a
precautionary approach that can require data to address all theoretical risks.
"In other words, regulators should consider these innovations' public-health
costs and benefits, and expedite their review. Given the degree of suffering
caused by mosquito-borne diseases, government leaders must not subject
genetic-engineering solutions for controlling them to the same kinds of
political and populist headwinds that have impeded the approval of genetically
engineered agricultural products. Only with pragmatic, fact-based Regulation can
the world realize genetic engineering's full disease-fighting potential.
Europe's Deepening Muddle. PRINCETON – German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble
recently declared that the European Union has "moved sovereignty to the European
level" – a startling claim, given that European governments seem to be pursuing
their national interests more aggressively than at any time since World War II.
Was Schauble's statement supposed to serve as a rallying cry for greater
European solidarity? While Schauble's strategy may sound appealing, it is, at
best, the symbolic garb of progress. For starters, the common funds are meager,
with no prospect of being increased – not least because of Germany's unrelenting
opposition. Likewise, so long as member countries maintain fiscal sovereignty, a
new mechanism to facilitate finger-wagging at countries that defy European
budget rules will change nothing. Even as Germany's Bundesbank fiercely (and
rightly) opposed the OMT program for its focus on countries' solvency, rather
than liquidity risk – thus creating a backdoor fiscal union – the government was
relieved that the German Constitutional Court, assessing the scheme's legality,
ultimately passed the buck to the European Court of Justice. After all,
establishing a genuine fiscal union would require strong political commitment –
and considerable legwork. The EU is an inspiring political structure that seeks
to break the mold of the nineteenth-century nation-state. But progress toward
that idealistic vision cannot continue to depend on shopworn symbolism. The euro
was the most audacious of those symbols – a construct of dubious economic value,
with well-documented fragilities. Its adoption was an act of economic hubris
that has imposed costs well beyond Europe's borders. Today, European leaders are
indulging in triumphalism, viewing the current economic reprieve as a validation
of failed transnational governance structures. Unfortunately, bold action to
address these fragilities seems more distant than ever. Balzac (20 May 1799-18
August 1850) was a French novelist and playwright. His magnum opus was a
sequence of short stories and novels collectively entitled La Comédie humaine,
which presents a panorama of French life in the years after the 1815 fall of
Napoleon Bonaparte. Due to his keen observation of detail and unfiltered
representation of society, Balzac is regarded as one of the founders of realism
in European literature. He is renowned for his multifaceted characters, who are
morally ambiguous. His writing influenced many subsequent novelists such as
Marcel Proust, Émile Zola, Charles Dickens, Edgar Allan Poe, Eça De Queirós,
Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Gustave Flaubert, Benito Pérez Galdós, Marie Corelli, Henry
James, William Faulkner, Jack Kerouac, and Italo Calvino, and philosophers such
as Friedrich Engels and Karl Marx. Many of Balzac's works have been made into or
have inspired films, and they are a continuing source of inspiration for
writers, filmmakers and critics. An enthusiastic reader and independent thinker
as a child, Balzac had trouble adapting to the teaching style of his grammar
school. His willful nature caused trouble throughout his life and frustrated his
ambitions to succeed in the world of business. When he finished school, Balzac
was an apprentice in a law office, but he turned his back on the study of law
after wearying of its inhumanity and banal routine. Before and during his career
as a writer, he attempted to be a publisher, printer, businessman, critic, and
politician; La Comédie humaine reflects his real-life difficulties, and includes
scenes from his own experience. Balzac suffered from health problems throughout
his life, possibly due to his intense writing schedule. His relationship with
his family was often strained by financial and personal difficulties, and he
ended several friendships over critical reviews. In 1850 he married Ewelina
Hanska, his longtime love; he died five months later. His father, born
Bernard-François, was one of eleven children from a poor family in Tarn, a
region in the south of France. In 1760 the elder Balzac set off for Paris with
only a louis coin in his pocket, determined to improve his social standing; by
1776 he had become Secretary to the King's Council and a Freemason. He had also
changed his name to that of an ancient noble family, and added - without any
official cause - the nobiliary particle De. After the Reign of Terror (1793 –
94), he was sent to Tours to coordinate supplies for the Army. Her family's
wealth was a considerable factor in the match: she was eighteen at the time of
the wedding, and Bernard-François fifty. exactly one year previous, Louis-Daniel
had been born, but he lived for only a month. Honoré's sisters Laure and
Laurence were born in 1800 and 1802, and his brother Henry-François in 1807. As
an infant Balzac was sent to a wet-nurse; the following year he was joined by
his sister Laure and they spent four years away from home. (Although Genevan
philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau's influential book Émile convinced many
mothers of the time to nurse their own children, sending babies to wet-nurses
was still common among the middle and upper classes.) When the Balzac children
returned home, they were kept at a frigid distance by their parents, which
affected the author-to-be significantly. His 1835 novel Le Lys dans La Vallée
features a cruel governess named Miss Caroline, modeled after his own caregiver.
At age ten Balzac was sent to the Oratorian grammar school in Vendôme, where he
studied for seven years. His father, seeking to instill the same hardscrabble
work ethic which had gained him the esteem of society, intentionally gave little
spending money to the boy. This made him the object of ridicule among his much
wealthier schoolmates. Balzac had difficulty adapting to the rote style of
learning at the school. As a result, he was frequently sent to the "alcove," a
punishment cell reserved for disobedient students. His time at Vendôme is
reflected in Louis Lambert, his 1832 novel about a young boy studying at an
Oratorian grammar school at Vendôme. He had told me that he found indescribable
delight in reading dictionaries for lack of other books. "Balzac often fell ill,
finally causing the headmaster to contact his family with news of a "sort of a
coma". When he returned home, his grandmother said: (Meanwhile, his father had
been writing a treatise on "the means of preventing thefts and murders, and of
restoring the men who commit them to a useful role in society", in which he
heaped disdain on prison as a form of crime prevention.) This was an unhappy
time in his life, during which he attempted suicide on a bridge over the Loire
River. François Guizot, who later became Prime Minister, was Professor of Modern
History. Abel-François Villemain, a recent arrival from the Collège Charlemagne,
lectured on French and classical literature. for three years he trained and
worked at the office of Victor Passez, a family friend. During this time Balzac
began to understand the vagaries of human nature. In his 1840 novel Le Notaire,
he wrote that a young person in the legal profession sees "the oily wheels of
every fortune, the hideous wrangling of heirs over corpses not yet cold, the
human heart grappling with the Penal Code." In 1819 Passez offered to make
Balzac his successor, but his apprentice had enough of the law. I should be like
everyone else. And that's what they call living, that life at the grindstone,
doing the same thing over and over again.... I am hungry and nothing is offered
to appease my appetite. The loss of this opportunity caused serious discord in
the Balzac household, although Honoré was not turned away entirely. Instead, in
April 1819 he was allowed to live in the French capital - as English critic
George Saintsbury describes it - "in a garret furnished in the most Spartan
fashion, with a starvation allowance and an old woman to look after him", while
the rest of the family moved to a house twenty miles [32 km] outside Paris.
Balzac's first project was a libretto for a comic opera called Le Corsaire,
based on Lord Byron's The Corsair. Realizing he would have trouble finding a
composer, however, he turned to other pursuits. In 1820 Balzac completed the
five-act verse tragedy Cromwell. Although it pales in comparison to later works,
some critics consider it a quality text. Sténie, Falthurne, and Corsino. In 1821
Balzac met the enterprising Auguste Lepoitevin, who convinced the author to
write short stories, which Lepoitevin would then sell to publishers. For
example, the scandalous novel Vicaire des Ardennes (1822) - banned for its
depiction of nearly-incestuous relations and, more egregiously, of a married
priest - attributed to a 'Horace De Saint-Aubin'. These books were potboiler
novels, designed to sell quickly and titillate audiences. Biographer Graham Robb
suggests that as he discovered the Novel, Balzac discovered himself. During this
time Balzac wrote two pamphlets in support of primogeniture and the Society of
Jesus. The latter, regarding the Jesuit order, illustrated his lifelong
admiration for the Catholic Church. "Christianity, and especially Catholicism,
being a complete repression of man's depraved tendencies, is the greatest
element in Social Order." His first venture was a publishing enterprise which
turned out cheap one-volume editions of French classics including the works of
Molière. This business failed miserably, with many of the books "sold as waste
paper". Balzac had better luck publishing the memoirs of Laure Junot, Duchess of
Abrantès - with whom he also had an affair. Balzac borrowed money from his
family and friends, and tried to build a printing business, then a typefounder
enterprise. His inexperience and lack of capital caused his ruin in these
trades. Balzac never lost his penchant for une bonne spéculation. Near the end
of his life Balzac was captivated by the idea of cutting 20,000 acres (81 Km2)
of oak wood in Ukraine and transporting it for sale in France. After writing
several novels, in 1832 Balzac conceived the idea for an enormous series of
books that would paint a panoramic portrait of "all aspects of society. "I am
about to become a genius. "Although he originally called it Etudes des Mœurs
(Study of Mores), it eventually became known as La Comédie Humaine, and he
included in it all the fiction that he had published in his lifetime under his
own name. This was to be Balzac's life work and his greatest achievement. After
the collapse of his businesses, Balzac traveled to Brittany and stayed with the
De Pommereul family outside Fougères. There he drew inspiration for Les Chouans
(1829), a tale of love gone wrong amid the Chouan royalist forces. Although
Balzac was a supporter of the crown, Balzac paints the counter-revolutionaries
in a sympathetic light-even though they are the center of the book's most brutal
scenes. This was the first book Balzac released under his own name, and it gave
him what one critic called "passage into the Promised Land". It established him
as an author of note (even if the surface owes a debt to Walter Scott) and
provided him with a name outside his past pseudonyms. Soon afterwards, around
the time of his father's death, Balzac wrote El Verdugo - about a 30-year-old
man who kills his father (Balzac was 30 years old at the time). This was the
first work signed "Honoré De Balzac". Like his father, he added the
aristocratic-sounding particle to help him fit into respected society, but it
was a choice based on skill, not birthright. as Robb explained: "The
disappearance of the father coincides with the adoption of the nobiliary
particle. A symbolic inheritance. "Just as his father had worked his way up from
poverty into respectable society, Balzac considered toil and effort his real
mark of nobility. He felt that the new July Monarchy (which claimed widespread
popular support) was disorganized and unprincipled, in need of a mediator to
keep the political peace between the King and insurgent forces. But after a
near-fatal accident in 1832 (he slipped and his head on the street), Balzac
decided not to stand for election. He obtains these things, but loses the
ability to manage them. In the end, his health fails and he is consumed by his
own confusion. Balzac meant the story to bear witness to the treacherous turns
of life, its "serpentine motion. "In 1833 Balzac released Eugénie Grandet, his
first best-selling novel. The tale of a young lady who inherits her father's
miserliness, it also became the most critically acclaimed book of his career.
The writing is simple, yet the individuals (especially the bourgeois title
character) are dynamic and complex. Today the Maison De Balzac is one of Paris's
three literary museums. Le Père Goriot (Old Father Goriot, 1835) was his next
success, in which Balzac transposes the story of King Lear to 1820 's Paris in
order to rage at a society bereft of all love save the love of money. The
centrality of a father in this novel matches Balzac's own position - not only as
mentor to his troubled young secretary, Jules Sandeau, but also the fact that he
had (most likely) fathered a child, Marie-Caroline, with his otherwise-married
lover, Maria Du Fresnay. In 1836 Balzac took the helm of the Chronique De Paris,
a weekly magazine of society and politics. He tried to enforce strict
impartiality in its pages and a reasoned assessment of various ideologies. As
Rogers notes, "Balzac was interested in any social, political, or economic
theory, whether from the right or the left. It lasted for three issues. These
dismal business efforts - and his misadventures in Sardinia - provided an
appropriate milieu in which to set the two-volume Illusions Perdues (Lost
Illusions, 1843). The novel concerns Lucien De Rubempré, a young poet trying to
make a name for himself, who becomes trapped in the morass of society's darkest
contradictions. Lucien's journalism work is informed by Balzac's own failed
ventures in the field. Splendeurs et misères des courtisanes (The Harlot High
and Low, 1847) continues Lucien's story. The book undergoes a massive temporal
rift; the first part (of four) covers a span of six years, while the final two
sections focus on just three days. Le Cousin Pons (1847) and La Cousine Bette
(1848) tell the story of Les Parents Pauvres (The Poor Relations). The conniving
and wrangling over wills and inheritances reflect the expertise gained by the
author as a young law clerk. Balzac's health was deteriorating by this point,
making the completion of this pair of books a significant accomplishment. Many
of his novels were initially serialized, like those of Dickens. Their length was
not predetermined. Illusions Perdues extends to a thousand pages after starting
inauspiciously in a small-town print shop, whereas La Fille aux Yeux D'Or (the
girl with the golden eyes, 1835) opens with a broad panorama of Paris but
becomes a closely plotted novella of only fifty pages. He then rose and wrote
for many hours, fueled by innumerable cups of black coffee. He would often work
for fifteen hours or more at a stretch; he claimed to have once worked for 48
hours with only three hours of rest in the middle. He sometimes repeated this
process during the publication of a book, causing significant expense for both
himself and the publisher. As a result, the finished product was frequently
quite different from the original book. While some of his books never reached a
finished state, some of those - such as Les employés (The Government Clerks,
1841) - are nonetheless noted by critics. Although Balzac was "by turns a hermit
and a vagrant", he managed to stay connected to the social world which nourished
his writing. He was friends with Théophile Gautier and Pierre-Marie-Charles De
Bernard du Grail De La Villette, and he knew Victor Hugo. Nevertheless, he did
not spend as much time in salons and clubs as did many of his characters. He
felt it was his business not to frequent society but to create it. "Nonetheless
he often spent long periods at Château De Saché, near Tours, the home of his
friend Jean De Margonne, his mother's lover and father to her youngest child.
Many of Balzac's tormented characters were created in the small second-floor
bedroom. In February 1832 Balzac received a letter from Odessa - lacking a
return address and signed only by "L'Étrangère" ("The Foreigner") - expressing
sadness at the cynicism and atheism in La Peau De Chagrin and its negative
portrayal of women. He responded by purchasing a classified advertisement in the
Gazette De France, hoping that his anonymous critic would find it. Thus began a
fifteen-year correspondence between Balzac and "the object of [his] sweetest
dreams": Ewelina Hanska. Hanska was married to a man twenty years her senior,
Waclaw Hanski, a wealthy Polish landowner living near Kiev. It had been a
marriage of convenience to preserve her family's fortune. In Balzac Ewelina
found a kindred spirit for her emotional and social desires, with the added
benefit of feeling a connection to the glamorous capital of France. Their
correspondence reveals an intriguing balance of passion, propriety and patience;
Robb says it is "like an experimental novel in which the female protagonist is
always trying to pull in extraneous realities but which the hero is determined
to keep on course, whatever tricks he has to use. Competing with the Hungarian
composer Franz Liszt, Balzac visited her in St.Petersburg in 1843 and impressed
himself on her heart. After a series of economic setbacks, health problems, and
prohibitions from the Tsar, the couple were finally able to wed. On 14 March
1850, with Balzac's health in serious decline, they drove from her estate in
Wierzchownia (village of Verkhivnia) to a church in Berdyczów (city of
Berdychiv, today in Ukraine) and were married. The ten-hour journey to and from
the ceremony took a toll on both husband and wife: her feet were too swollen to
walk, and he endured severe heart trouble. Although he married late in life,
Balzac had already written two treatises on marriage: Physiologie du Mariage and
Scènes De La Vie Conjugale. These works suffered from a lack of firsthand
knowledge; Saintsbury points out that "Cœlebs cannot talk of [marriage] with
much authority. His health deteriorated on the way, and Ewelina wrote to her
daughter about Balzac being "in a state of extreme weakness" and "sweating
profusely". They arrived in the French capital on 20 May, his fifty-first
birthday. Five months after his wedding, on 18 August, Balzac died. He had been
visited that day by Victor Hugo, who later served as pallbearer and eulogist at
Balzac's funeral. Balzac was buried at the Cimetière du Père Lachaise in Paris.
"Today", said Hugo at the ceremony, "we have a people in black because of the
death of the man of talent; a nation in mourning for a man of genius. "The
funeral was attended by "almost every writer in Paris", including Frédérick
Lemaître, Gustave Courbet, Dumas père and Dumas fils. Later, Balzac became the
subject of a monumental statue by the French sculptor Auguste Rodin, which
stands near the intersection of Boulevard Raspail and Boulevard Montparnasse.
Rodin featured Balzac in several of his smaller sculptures as well. The Comédie
Humaine remained unfinished at the time of his death - Balzac had plans to
include numerous other books, most of which he never started. He frequently
moved between works in progress, and "finished" works were often revised between
editions. This piecemeal style is reflective of the author's own life, a
possible attempt to stabilize it through fiction. "The vanishing man", writes
Pritchett, "who must be pursued from the rue Cassini to... Versailles, Ville
D'Avray, Italy, and Vienna can construct a settled dwelling only in his work.
"Balzac's extensive use of detail, especially the detail of objects, to
illustrate the lives of his characters made him an early pioneer of literary
realism. While he admired and drew inspiration from the Romantic style of
Scottish novelist Walter Scott, Balzac sought to depict human existence through
the use of particulars. Balzac transferred this to his descriptions of the
Pension Vauquer in Le Père Goriot, making the wallpaper speak of the identities
of those living inside. Some critics consider Balzac's writing exemplary of
naturalism - a more pessimistic and analytical form of realism, which seeks to
explain human behavior as intrinsically linked with the environment. French
novelist Émile Zola declared Balzac the father of the naturalist novel. Zola
indicated that, whereas Romantics saw the world through a colored lens, the
naturalist sees through a clear glass - precisely the sort of effect Balzac
attempted to achieve in his works. Balzac sought to present his characters as
real people, neither fully good nor fully evil, but fully human. "To arrive at
the truth", he wrote in the preface to Le Lys dans La Vallée, "writers use
whatever literary device seems capable of giving the greatest intensity of life
to their characters. ""Balzac's characters", Robb notes, "were as real to him as
if he were observing them in the outside world. "This reality was noted by
playwright Oscar Wilde, who said: I remember it when I laugh. "At the same time,
the characters represent a particular range of social types: "Balzac's use of
repeating characters, moving in and out of the Comédie's books, strengthens the
realist representation. "When the characters reappear", notes Rogers, "they do
not step out of nowhere; they emerge from the privacy of their own lives which,
for an interval, we have not been allowed to see. "He also used a realist
technique which French novelist Marcel Proust later named "retrospective
illumination", whereby a character's past is revealed long after she or he first
appears. Struggling against the currents of human nature and society, they may
lose more often than they win - but only rarely do they give up. Balzac spoke
often of a "nervous and fluid force" between individuals, and Raphaël Valentin's
decline in La Peau De Chagrin exemplifies the danger of withdrawing from the
company of other people. Intricate details about locations sometimes stretch for
fifteen or twenty pages. The influence of Paris permeates La Comédie. "His
labyrinthine city provided a literary model used later by English novelist
Charles Dickens and Russian author Fyodor Dostoevsky. The centrality of Paris in
La Comédie Humaine is key to Balzac's legacy as a realist. "Realism is nothing
if not urban", notes critic Peter Brooks; Balzac's literary mood evolved over
time from one of despondency and chagrin to one of solidarity and courage - but
not optimism. La Peau De Chagrin, among his earliest novels, is a pessimistic
tale of confusion and destruction. But the cynicism declined as his oeuvre
progressed, and the characters of Illusions Perdues reveal sympathy for those
who are pushed to one side by society. As part of the 19th-century evolution of
the novel as a "democratic literary form", Balzac wrote that "books are written
for everybody". Balzac concerned himself overwhelmingly with the darker essence
of human nature and the corrupting influence of middle and high societies. He
worked to observe humanity in its most representative state, frequently passing
incognito among the masses of Parisian society to do research. He used incidents
from his life and the people around him, in works like Eugénie Grandet and Louis
Lambert. in many ways, he is the antipode to Victor Hugo's democratic
republicanism. Nevertheless, his keen insight regarding working-class conditions
earned him the esteem of many Socialists and Marxists. Engels said that Balzac
was his favorite writer. Marx's work Das Kapital also makes constant reference
to the works of Balzac and urged Engels to read Balzac's work The Unknown
Masterpiece. Balzac influenced the writers of his time and beyond. He has been
compared to Charles Dickens and has been called one of Dickens' influences.
Critic W. H. Helm calls one "the French Dickens" and the other "the English
Balzac". Critic Richard Lehan says that "Balzac was the bridge between the comic
realism of Dickens and the naturalism of Zola." Praising his portrayal of
society while attacking his prose style, Flaubert once wrote: "What a man he
would have been had he known how to write! "While he disdained the label of
"realist", Flaubert clearly took heed of Balzac's close attention to detail and
unvarnished depictions of bourgeois life. This influence shows in Flaubert's
work L'education sentimentale, which owes a debt to Balzac's Illusions Perdues.
"What Balzac started", says Lehan, "Flaubert helped finish. "Marcel Proust
similarly learned from the Realist example; he adored Balzac and studied his
works carefully, although he criticised what he called Balzac's "vulgarity.
"Balzac's story Une Heure de ma Vie (An Hour of my Life, 1822), in which minute
details are followed by deep personal reflections, is a clear ancestor of the
style which Proust used in A la Recherche du Temps Perdu. However, Proust wrote
later in life that the contemporary fashion to rank Balzac higher than Tolstoy
was "madness. "Perhaps the author most affected by Balzac was American
expatriate novelist Henry James. In 1878 James wrote with sadness about the lack
of contemporary attention paid to Balzac, and lavished praise on him in four
essays (in 1875, 1877, 1902, and 1913). In 1878 James wrote: "Large as Balzac
is, he is all of one piece and he hangs perfectly together. "He wrote with
admiration of Balzac's attempt to portray in writing "a beast with a hundred
claws. "In his own novels James explored more of the psychological motives of
the characters and less of the historical sweep exhibited by Balzac - a
conscious style preference. "The artist of the Comédie Humaine," he wrote, "is
half smothered by the historian. "Still, both authors used the form of the
realist novel to probe the machinations of society and the myriad motives of
human behavior. Balzac's vision of a society in which class, money and personal
ambition are the major players has been endorsed by critics of both left-wing
and right-wing political tendencies. Marxist Friedrich Engels wrote: "Balzac has
received high praise from critics as diverse as Walter Benjamin and Camille
Paglia. In 1970 Roland Barthes published S/Z, a detailed analysis of Balzac's
story Sarrasine and a key work in structuralist literary criticism. Balzac has
also influenced popular culture. Many of his works have been made into popular
films and television serials. William Shakespeare (26 April 1564 (baptised) – 23
April 1616) was an English poet, playwright and actor, widely regarded as the
greatest writer in the English language and the world's pre-eminent dramatist.
He is often called England's national poet and the "Bard of Avon". His extant
works, including some collaborations, consist of about 38 plays, 154 sonnets,
two long narrative poems, and a few other verses, the authorship of some of
which is uncertain. At the age of 18, he married Anne Hathaway, with whom he had
three children: Between 1585 and 1592, he began a successful career in London as
an actor, writer, and part-owner of a playing company called the Lord
Chamberlain's Men, later known as the King's Men. Few records of Shakespeare's
private life survive, and there has been considerable speculation about such
matters as his physical appearance, sexuality, religious beliefs, and whether
the works attributed to him were written by others. His early plays were mainly
comedies and histories, genres he raised to the peak of sophistication and
artistry by the end of the 16th century. He then wrote mainly tragedies until
about 1608, including Hamlet, King Lear, Othello, and Macbeth, considered some
of the finest works in the English language. Many of his plays were published in
editions of varying quality and accuracy during his lifetime. It was prefaced
with a poem by Ben Jonson, in which Shakespeare is hailed, presciently, as "not
of an age, but for all time. "Shakespeare was a respected poet and playwright in
his own day, but his reputation did not rise to its present heights until the
19th century. The Romantics, in particular, acclaimed Shakespeare's genius, and
the Victorians worshipped Shakespeare with a reverence that George Bernard Shaw
called "bardolatry". In the 20th century, his work was repeatedly adopted and
rediscovered by new movements in scholarship and performance. His plays remain
highly popular today and are constantly studied, performed, and reinterpreted in
diverse cultural and political contexts throughout the world. He was born in
Stratford-upon-Avon and baptised there on 26 April 1564. His actual date of
birth remains unknown, but is traditionally observed on 23 April, Saint George's
Day. This date, which can be traced back to an 18th-century scholar's mistake,
has proved appealing to biographers, since Shakespeare died 23 April 1616. He
was the third child of eight and the eldest surviving son. Grammar schools
varied in quality during the Elizabethan era, but grammar school curricula were
largely similar, the basic Latin text was standardised by royal decree, and the
school would have provided an intensive education in grammar based upon Latin
classical authors. At the age of 18, Shakespeare married the 26-year-old Anne
Hathaway. The next day, two of Hathaway's neighbours posted bonds guaranteeing
that no lawful claims impeded the marriage. The ceremony may have been arranged
in some haste, since the Worcester chancellor allowed the marriage banns to be
read once instead of the usual three times, and six months after the marriage
Anne gave birth to a daughter, Susanna, baptised 26 May 1583. Hamnet died of
unknown causes at the age of 11 and was buried 11 August 1596. After the birth
of the twins, Shakespeare left few historical traces until he is mentioned as
part of the London theatre scene in 1592. Scholars refer to the years between
1585 and 1592 as Shakespeare's "lost years". Biographers attempting to account
for this period have reported many apocryphal stories. Nicholas Rowe,
Shakespeare's first biographer, recounted a Stratford legend that Shakespeare
fled the town for London to escape prosecution for deer poaching in the estate
of local squire Thomas Lucy. Shakespeare is also supposed to have taken his
revenge on Lucy by writing a scurrilous ballad about him. Another 18th-century
story has Shakespeare starting his theatrical career minding the horses of
theatre patrons in London. Some 20th-century scholars have suggested that
Shakespeare may have been employed as a schoolmaster by Alexander Hoghton of
Lancashire, a Catholic landowner who named a certain "William Shakeshafte" in
his will. Little evidence substantiates such stories other than hearsay
collected after his death, and Shakeshafte was a common name in the Lancashire
area. It is not known exactly when Shakespeare began writing, but contemporary
allusions and records of performances show that several of his plays were on the
London stage by 1592. By then, he was sufficiently well known in London to be
attacked in print by the playwright Robert Greene in his Groats-Worth of Wit:
and being an absolute Johannes factotum, is in his own conceit the only
Shake-Scene in a country. Scholars differ on the exact meaning of these words,
but most agree that Greene is accusing Shakespeare of reaching above his rank in
trying to match university-educated writers such as Christopher Marlowe, Thomas
Nashe and Greene himself (the "university wits"). The italicised phrase
parodying the line "Oh, tiger's heart wrapped in a woman's hide" from
Shakespeare's Henry VI, Part 3, along with the pun "Shake-Scene", identifies
Shakespeare as Greene's target. Here Johannes Factotum — "Jack of all trades" —
means a second-rate tinkerer with the work of others, rather than the more
common "universal genius". Greene's attack is the earliest surviving mention of
Shakespeare's career in the theatre. Biographers suggest that his career may
have begun any time from the mid-1580s to just before Greene's remarks. From
1594, Shakespeare's plays were performed by only the Lord Chamberlain's Men, a
company owned by a group of players, including Shakespeare, that soon became the
leading playing company in London. After the death of Queen Elizabeth in 1603,
the company was awarded a royal patent by the new king, James I, and changed its
name to the King's Men. In 1599, a partnership of company members built their
own theatre on the south bank of the River Thames, which they called the Globe.
In 1608, the partnership also took over the Blackfriars indoor theatre. Records
of Shakespeare's property purchases and investments indicate that the company
made him a wealthy man. In 1597, he bought the second-largest house in
Stratford, New Place, and in 1605, he invested in a share of the parish tithes
in Stratford. Some of Shakespeare's plays were published in quarto editions from
1594. Shakespeare continued to act in his own and other plays after his success
as a playwright. The 1616 edition of Ben Jonson's Works names him on the cast
lists for Every Man In His Humour (1598) and Sejanus His Fall (1603). The
absence of his name from the 1605 cast list for Jonson's Volpone is taken by
some scholars as a sign that his acting career was nearing its end. The First
Folio of 1623, however, lists Shakespeare as one of "the Principal Actors in all
these Plays", some of which were first staged after Volpone, although we cannot
know for certain which roles he played. In 1709, Rowe passed down a tradition
that Shakespeare played the ghost of Hamlet's father. Later traditions maintain
that he also played Adam in As You Like It and the Chorus in Henry V, though
scholars doubt the sources of the information. Shakespeare divided his time
between London and Stratford during his career. He moved across the river to
Southwark by 1599, the year his company constructed the Globe Theatre there. By
1604, he had moved north of the river again, to an area north of St Paul's
Cathedral with many fine houses. There he rented rooms from a French Huguenot
named Christopher Mountjoy, a maker of ladies' wigs and other headgear. Rowe was
the first biographer to record the tradition, repeated by Johnson, that
Shakespeare retired to Stratford 'some years before his death'. He was still
working as an actor in London in 1608; in an answer to the sharers' petition in
1635 Cuthbert Burbage stated that after purchasing the lease of the Blackfriars
Theatre in 1608 from Henry Evans, the King's Men 'placed men players' there,
'which were Heminges, Condell, Shakespeare, etc.'. In a document dated 7 June
1609 in a lawsuit he brought in Stratford against John Addenbrooke, Shakespeare
is described as 'generosus nuper in curia domini Jacobi' ('gentleman, recently
at the Court of King James'). However it is perhaps relevant that the bubonic
plague raged in London throughout 1609. Retirement from all work was uncommon at
that time. Shakespeare continued to visit London during the years 1611–1614. In
March 1613 he bought a gatehouse in the former Blackfriars priory; His last
three plays were collaborations, probably with John Fletcher, who succeeded him
as the house playwright for the King's Men. Shakespeare died on 23 April 1616
and was survived by his wife and two daughters. Susanna had married a physician,
John Hall, in 1607, and Judith had married Thomas Quiney, a vintner, two months
before Shakespeare's death. the following day his new son-in-law, Thomas Quiney
was found guilty of fathering an illegitimate son by Margaret Wheeler, who had
died during childbirth. Thomas was ordered by the church court to do public
penance which would have caused much shame and embarrassment for the Shakespeare
family. In his will, Shakespeare left the bulk of his large estate to his elder
daughter Susanna. The Quineys had three children, all of whom died without
marrying. The Halls had one child, Elizabeth, who married twice but died without
children in 1670, ending Shakespeare's direct line. He did make a point,
however, of leaving her "my second best bed", a bequest that has led to much
speculation. Some scholars see the bequest as an insult to Anne, whereas others
believe that the second-best bed would have been the matrimonial bed and
therefore rich in significance. Shakespeare was buried in the chancel of the
Holy Trinity Church two days after his death. Sometime before 1623, a funerary
monument was erected in his memory on the north wall, with a half-effigy of him
in the act of writing. In 1623, in conjunction with the publication of the First
Folio, the Droeshout engraving was published. Shakespeare has been commemorated
in many statues and memorials around the world, including funeral monuments in
Southwark Cathedral and Poets' Corner in Westminster Abbey. Most playwrights of
the period typically collaborated with others at some point, and critics agree
that Shakespeare did the same, mostly early and late in his career. Some
attributions, such as Titus Andronicus and the early history plays, remain
controversial, while The Two Noble Kinsmen and the lost Cardenio have
well-attested contemporary documentation. Textual evidence also supports the
view that several of the plays were revised by other writers after their
original composition. The first recorded works of Shakespeare are Richard III
and the three parts of Henry VI, written in the early 1590 s during a vogue for
historical drama. Shakespeare's plays are difficult to date, however, and
studies of the texts suggest that Titus Andronicus, The Comedy of Errors, The
Taming of the Shrew and The Two Gentlemen of Verona may also belong to
Shakespeare's earliest period. His first histories, which draw heavily on the
1587 edition of Raphael Holinshed's Chronicles of England, Scotland, and
Ireland, dramatise the destructive results of weak or corrupt rule and have been
interpreted as a justification for the origins of the Tudor dynasty. The early
plays were influenced by the works of other Elizabethan dramatists, especially
Thomas Kyd and Christopher Marlowe, by the traditions of medieval drama, and by
the plays of Seneca. The Comedy of Errors was also based on classical models,
but no source for The Taming of the Shrew has been found, though it is related
to a separate play of the same name and may have derived from a folk story. Like
The Two Gentlemen of Verona, in which two friends appear to approve of rape, the
Shrew's story of the taming of a woman's independent spirit by a man sometimes
troubles modern critics and directors. A Midsummer Night's Dream is a witty
mixture of romance, fairy magic, and comic lowlife scenes. Shakespeare's next
comedy, the equally romantic Merchant of Venice, contains a portrayal of the
vengeful Jewish moneylender Shylock, which reflects Elizabethan views but may
appear derogatory to modern audiences. This period begins and ends with two
tragedies: Romeo and Juliet, the famous romantic tragedy of sexually charged
adolescence, love, and death; and Julius Caesar — based on Sir Thomas North's
1579 translation of Plutarch's Parallel Lives — which introduced a new kind of
drama. According to Shakespearean scholar James Shapiro, in Julius Caesar "the
various strands of politics, character, inwardness, contemporary events, even
Shakespeare's own reflections on the act of writing, began to infuse each
other". In the early 17th century, Shakespeare wrote the so-called "problem
plays" Measure for Measure, Troilus and Cressida, and All's Well That Ends Well
and a number of his best known tragedies. The titular hero of one of
Shakespeare's most famous tragedies, Hamlet, has probably been discussed more
than any other Shakespearean character, especially for his famous soliloquy
which begins "To be or not to be; that is the question". Unlike the introverted
Hamlet, whose fatal flaw is hesitation, the heroes of the tragedies that
followed, Othello and King Lear, are undone by hasty errors of judgement. In
Othello, the villain Iago stokes Othello's sexual jealousy to the point where he
murders the innocent wife who loves him. In King Lear, the old king commits the
tragic error of giving up his powers, initiating the events which lead to the
torture and blinding of the Earl of Gloucester and the murder of Lear's youngest
daughter Cordelia. According to the critic Frank Kermode, "the play-offers
neither its good characters nor its audience any relief from its cruelty". In
Macbeth, the shortest and most compressed of Shakespeare's tragedies,
uncontrollable ambition incites Macbeth and his wife, Lady Macbeth, to murder
the rightful king and usurp the throne, until their own guilt destroys them in
turn. In this play, Shakespeare adds a supernatural element to the tragic
structure. His last major tragedies, Antony and Cleopatra and Coriolanus,
contain some of Shakespeare's finest poetry and were considered his most
successful tragedies by the poet and critic T. S. Eliot. In his final period,
Shakespeare turned to romance or tragicomedy and completed three more major
plays: Cymbeline, The Winter's Tale and The Tempest, as well as the
collaboration, Pericles, Prince of Tyre. Less bleak than the tragedies, these
four plays are graver in tone than the comedies of the 1590s, but they end with
reconciliation and the forgiveness of potentially tragic errors. Some
commentators have seen this change in mood as evidence of a more serene view of
life on Shakespeare's part, but it may merely reflect the theatrical fashion of
the day. Shakespeare collaborated on two further surviving plays, Henry VIII and
The Two Noble Kinsmen, probably with John Fletcher. It is not clear for which
companies Shakespeare wrote his early plays. The title page of the 1594 edition
of Titus Andronicus reveals that the play had been acted by three different
troupes. After the plagues of 1592–3, Shakespeare's plays were performed by his
own company at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch, north of the Thames.
Londoners flocked there to see the first part of Henry IV, Leonard Digges
recording, "Let but Falstaff come, Hal, Poins, the rest... and you scarce shall
have a room". When the company found themselves in dispute with their landlord,
they pulled The Theatre down and used the timbers to construct the Globe
Theatre, the first playhouse built by actors for actors, on the south bank of
the Thames at Southwark. The Globe opened in autumn 1599, with Julius Caesar one
of the first plays staged. Most of Shakespeare's greatest post-1599 plays were
written for the Globe, including Hamlet, Othello and King Lear. After the Lord
Chamberlain's Men were renamed the King's Men in 1603, they entered a special
relationship with the new King James. Although the performance records are
patchy, the King's Men performed seven of Shakespeare's plays at court between 1
November 1604 and 31 October 1605, including two performances of The Merchant of
Venice. After 1608, they performed at the indoor Blackfriars Theatre during the
winter and the Globe during the summer. The actors in Shakespeare's company
included the famous Richard Burbage, William Kempe, Henry Condell and John
Heminges. The popular comic actor Will Kempe played the servant Peter in Romeo
and Juliet and Dogberry in Much Ado About Nothing, among other characters. He
was replaced around the turn of the 16th century by Robert Armin, who played
roles such as Touchstone in As You Like It and the fool in King Lear. In 1613,
Sir Henry Wotton recorded that Henry VIII "was set forth with many extraordinary
circumstances of pomp and ceremony". In 1623, John Heminges and Henry Condell,
two of Shakespeare's friends from the King's Men, published the First Folio, a
collected edition of Shakespeare's plays. It contained 36 texts, including 18
printed for the first time. No evidence suggests that Shakespeare approved these
editions, which the First Folio describes as "stol'n and surreptitious copies".
Alfred Pollard termed some of them "bad quartos" because of their adapted,
paraphrased or garbled texts, which may in places have been reconstructed from
memory. Where several versions of a play survive, each differs from the other.
The differences may stem from copying or printing errors, from notes by actors
or audience members, or from Shakespeare's own papers. In the case of King Lear,
however, while most modern editions do conflate them, the 1623 folio version is
so different from the 1608 quarto, that the Oxford Shakespeare prints them both,
arguing that they cannot be conflated without confusion. In 1593 and 1594, when
the theatres were closed because of plague, Shakespeare published two narrative
poems on erotic themes, Venus and Adonis and The Rape of Lucrece. He dedicated
them to Henry Wriothesley, Earl of Southampton. In Venus and Adonis, an innocent
Adonis rejects the sexual advances of Venus; while in The Rape of Lucrece, the
virtuous wife Lucrece is raped by the lustful Tarquin. Both proved popular and
were often reprinted during Shakespeare's lifetime. Most scholars now accept
that Shakespeare wrote A Lover's Complaint. Critics consider that its fine
qualities are marred by leaden effects. The Phoenix and the Turtle, printed in
Robert Chester's 1601 Love's Martyr, mourns the deaths of the legendary phoenix
and his lover, the faithful turtle dove. Published in 1609, the Sonnets were the
last of Shakespeare's non-dramatic works to be printed. Scholars are not certain
when each of the 154 sonnets was composed, but evidence suggests that
Shakespeare wrote sonnets throughout his career for a private readership. Even
before the two unauthorised sonnets appeared in The Passionate Pilgrim in 1599,
Francis Meres had referred in 1598 to Shakespeare's "sugred Sonnets among his
private friends". Few analysts believe that the published collection follows
Shakespeare's intended sequence. He seems to have planned two contrasting
series: one about uncontrollable lust for a married woman of dark complexion
(the "dark lady"), and one about conflicted love for a fair young man (the "fair
youth"). It remains unclear if these figures represent real individuals, or if
the authorial "I" who addresses them represents Shakespeare himself, though
Wordsworth believed that with the sonnets"Shakespeare unlocked his heart". The
1609 edition was dedicated to a "Mr. W.H.", credited as "the only begetter" of
the poems. Critics praise the Sonnets as a profound meditation on the nature of
love, sexual passion, procreation, death, and time. Shakespeare's first plays
were written in the conventional style of the day. He wrote them in a stylised
language that does not always spring naturally from the needs of the characters
or the drama. The poetry depends on extended, sometimes elaborate metaphors and
conceits, and the language is often rhetorical — written for actors to declaim
rather than speak. and the verse in The Two Gentlemen of Verona has been
described as stilted. Soon, however, Shakespeare began to adapt the traditional
styles to his own purposes. The opening soliloquy of Richard III has its roots
in the self-declaration of Vice in medieval drama. At the same time, Richard's
vivid self-awareness looks forward to the soliloquies of Shakespeare's mature
plays. Shakespeare combined the two throughout his career, with Romeo and Juliet
perhaps the best example of the mixing of the styles. By the time of Romeo and
Juliet, Richard II, and A Midsummer Night's Dream in the Mid-1590s, Shakespeare
had begun to write a more natural poetry. In practice, this meant that his verse
was usually unrhymed and consisted of ten syllables to a line, spoken with a
stress on every second syllable. It is often beautiful, but its sentences tend
to start, pause, and finish at the end of lines, with the risk of monotony. This
technique releases the new power and flexibility of the poetry in plays such as
Julius Caesar and Hamlet. Shakespeare uses it, for example, to convey the
turmoil in Hamlet's mind. After Hamlet, Shakespeare varied his poetic style
further, particularly in the more emotional passages of the late tragedies. The
literary critic A.C. Bradley described this style as "more concentrated, rapid,
varied, and, in construction, less regular, not seldom twisted or elliptical".
In the last phase of his career, Shakespeare adopted many techniques to achieve
these effects. In Macbeth, for example, the language darts from one unrelated
metaphor or simile to another. The listener is challenged to complete the sense.
The late romances, with their shifts in time and surprising turns of plot,
inspired a last poetic style in which long and short sentences are set against
one another, clauses are piled up, subject and object are reversed, and words
are omitted, creating an effect of spontaneity. Shakespeare combined poetic
genius with a practical sense of the theatre. Like all playwrights of the time,
he dramatised stories from sources such as Plutarch and Holinshed. He reshaped
each plot to create several centres of interest and to show as many sides of a
narrative to the audience as possible. This strength of design ensures that a
Shakespeare play can survive translation, cutting and wide interpretation
without loss to its core drama. As Shakespeare's mastery grew, he gave his
characters clearer and more varied motivations and distinctive patterns of
speech. He preserved aspects of his earlier style in the later plays, however.
In Shakespeare's late romances, he deliberately returned to a more artificial
style, which emphasised the illusion of theatre. Shakespeare's work has made a
lasting impression on later theatre and literature. In particular, he expanded
the dramatic potential of characterisation, plot, language, and genre. Until
Romeo and Juliet, for example, romance had not been viewed as a worthy topic for
tragedy. Soliloquies had been used mainly to convey information about characters
or events; His work heavily influenced later poetry. The Romantic poets
attempted to revive Shakespearean verse drama, though with little success.
Critic George Steiner described all English verse dramas from Coleridge to
Tennyson as "feeble variations on Shakespearean themes. "Shakespeare influenced
novelists such as Thomas Hardy, William Faulkner, and Charles Dickens. The
American novelist Herman Melville's soliloquies owe much to Shakespeare; his
Captain Ahab in Moby-Dick is a classic tragic hero, inspired by King Lear.
Scholars have identified 20,000 pieces of music linked to Shakespeare's works.
These include two operas by Giuseppe Verdi, Otello and Falstaff, whose critical
standing compares with that of the source plays. Shakespeare has also inspired
many painters, including the Romantics and the Pre-Raphaelites. The
psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud drew on Shakespearean psychology, in particular that
of Hamlet, for his theories of human nature. In Shakespeare's day, English
grammar, spelling and pronunciation were less standardised than they are now,
and his use of language helped shape modern English. Samuel Johnson quoted him
more often than any other author in his A Dictionary of the English Language,
the first serious work of its type. Expressions such as "with bated breath"
(Merchant of Venice) and "a foregone conclusion" (Othello) have found their way
into everyday English speech. Shakespeare was not revered in his lifetime, but
he received a large amount of praise. In 1598, the cleric and author Francis
Meres singled him out from a group of English writers as "the most excellent" in
both comedy and tragedy. In the First Folio, Ben Jonson called Shakespeare the
"Soul of the age, the applause, delight, the wonder of our stage", though he had
remarked elsewhere that "Shakespeare wanted art". Between the Restoration of the
monarchy in 1660 and the end of the 17th century, classical ideas were in vogue.
Thomas Rymer, for example, condemned Shakespeare for mixing the comic with the
tragic. Nevertheless, poet and critic John Dryden rated Shakespeare highly,
saying of Jonson, "I admire him, but I love Shakespeare". but during the 18th
century, critics began to respond to Shakespeare on his own terms and acclaim
what they termed his natural genius. By 1800, he was firmly enshrined as the
national poet. In the 18th and 19th centuries, his reputation also spread
abroad. Among those who championed him were the writers Voltaire, Goethe,
Stendhal and Victor Hugo. During the Romantic era, Shakespeare was praised by
the poet and literary philosopher Samuel Taylor Coleridge; and the critic August
Wilhelm Schlegel translated his plays in the spirit of German Romanticism.
indestructible". The Victorians produced his plays as lavish spectacles on a
grand scale. The playwright and critic George Bernard Shaw mocked the cult of
Shakespeare worship as "bardolatry". He claimed that the new naturalism of
Ibsen's plays had made Shakespeare obsolete. The modernist revolution in the
arts during the early 20th century, far from discarding Shakespeare, eagerly
enlisted his work in the service of the avant-garde. Marxist playwright and
director Bertolt Brecht devised an epic theatre under the influence of
Shakespeare. The poet and critic T. S. Eliot argued against Shaw that
Shakespeare's "primitiveness" in fact made him truly modern. Eliot, along with
G. Wilson Knight and the school of New Criticism, led a movement towards a
closer reading of Shakespeare's imagery. In the 1950s, a wave of new critical
approaches replaced modernism and paved the way for "post-modern" studies of
Shakespeare. By the 1980s, Shakespeare studies were open to movements such as
structuralism, feminism, New Historicism, African-American studies, and queer
studies. Around 230 years after Shakespeare's death, doubts began to be
expressed about the authorship of the works attributed to him. Only a small
minority of academics believe there is reason to question the traditional
attribution, but interest in the subject, particularly the Oxfordian theory of
Shakespeare authorship, continues into the 21st century. Some scholars claim
that members of Shakespeare's family were Catholics, at a time when Catholic
practice was against the law. Shakespeare's mother, Mary Arden, certainly came
from a pious Catholic family. In 1606 the name of William's daughter Susanna
appears on a list of those who failed to attend Easter communion in Stratford.
Scholars find evidence both for and against Shakespeare's Catholicism in his
plays, but the truth may be impossible to prove either way. Few details of
Shakespeare's sexuality are known. At 18, he married the 26-year-old Anne
Hathaway, who was pregnant. Susanna, the first of their three children, was born
six months later on 26 May 1583. Over the centuries some readers have posited
that Shakespeare's sonnets are autobiographical, and point to them as evidence
of his love for a young man. Others read the same passages as the expression of
intense friendship rather than sexual love. The 26 so-called "Dark Lady"
sonnets, addressed to a married woman, are taken as evidence of heterosexual
liaisons. From the 18th century, the desire for authentic Shakespeare portraits
fuelled claims that various surviving pictures depicted Shakespeare. That demand
also led to the production of several fake portraits, as well as
mis-attributions, repaintings and relabelling of portraits of other people.
Shakespeare's works include the 36 plays printed in the First Folio of 1623,
listed below according to their Folio classification as comedies, histories and
tragedies. Two plays not included in the First Folio, The Two Noble Kinsmen and
Pericles, Prince of Tyre, are now accepted as part of the canon, with scholars
agreed that Shakespeare made a major contribution to their composition. No
Shakespearean poems were included in the First Folio. In the late 19th century,
Edward Dowden classified four of the late comedies as romances, and though many
scholars prefer to call them tragicomedies, his term is often used. 
